4.2.1	Ancillary Service Plan and Ancillary Service Obligation
4.2.1.1	Ancillary Service Plan
(1)	ERCOT shall analyze the expected Load conditions for the Operating Day and develop an Ancillary Service Plan that identifies the Ancillary Service MW necessary for each hour of the Operating Day.  The MW of each Ancillary Service required may vary from hour to hour depending on ERCOT System conditions.  ERCOT must post the Ancillary Service Plan to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that an Emergency Condition may exist that would adversely affect ERCOT System reliability, it may change the percentage of Load Resources that are allowed to provide ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Responsive Reserve (RRS) from the monthly amounts determined previously, as described in Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities, and must post any change in the percentage to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.  
(3)	ERCOT shall determine the total required amount of each Ancillary Service under Section 3.16, or use its operational judgment and experience to change the daily quantity of each required Ancillary Service.  
(4)	ERCOT shall include in the Ancillary Service Plan enough capacity to automatically control frequency with the intent to meet North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.
(5)	Once specified by ERCOT for an hour and published on the ERCOT website, Ancillary Service quantity requirements for an Operating Day may not be decreased. 
[NPRR1008:  Insert paragraph (6) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	ERCOT shall create an Ancillary Service Demand Curve (ASDC) for each Ancillary Service as described in Section 4.4.12, Determination of Ancillary Service Demand Curves.  ERCOT must post the ASDCs to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.  If ERCOT changes the Ancillary Service Plan per Section 6.4.9.1.2, Changes to Operating Day Ancillary Service Plan, the ASDCs reflecting the change to the Ancillary Service Plan will be posted to the ERCOT website.
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall assign part of the Ancillary Service Plan quantity, by service, by hour, to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) based on its Load Serving Entity (LSE) Load Ratio Shares (LRSs) (including the shares for Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports) aggregated by hour to the QSE level.  If the resultant QSE-level share is negative, the QSE’s share will be set to zero and all other QSE shares will be adjusted on a pro rata basis such that the sum of all shares is equal to one.  The resulting Ancillary Service quantity for each QSE, by service, by hour, is called its Ancillary Service Obligation.  ERCOT shall base the QSE Ancillary Service allocation on the QSE to LSE relationships for the operating date and on the hourly LSE LRSs from the Real-Time Market (RTM) data used for Initial Settlement for the same hour and day of the week, for the most recent day for which Initial Settlement data is available, multiplied by the quantity of that service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan.  The Ancillary Service Obligation defined shall be adjusted based on the most current real time settlement and resettlement data for the Operating Day for which the Ancillary Service was procured. 
(2)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its Ancillary Service Obligation for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day.
(3)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each QSE’s LRS used for the Ancillary Service Obligation calculation.
[NPRR1008:  Replace Section 4.2.1.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall assign part of the Ancillary Service Plan quantity, or total Ancillary Service procurement quantity, if different, by service, by hour, to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) based on its Load Serving Entity (LSE) Load Ratio Shares (LRSs) (including the shares for Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports) aggregated by hour to the QSE level.  If the resultant QSE-level share is negative, the QSE’s share will be set to zero and all other QSE shares will be adjusted on a pro rata basis such that the sum of all shares is equal to one.  The resulting Ancillary Service quantity for each QSE, by service, by hour, is called its Ancillary Service Obligation.  ERCOT shall base the QSE Ancillary Service allocation on the QSE to LSE relationships for the operating date and on the hourly LSE LRSs from the Real-Time Market (RTM) data used for Initial Settlement for the same hour and day of the week, for the most recent day for which Initial Settlement data is available, multiplied by the quantity of that service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan.  The Ancillary Service Obligation defined shall be adjusted based on the most current real time settlement and resettlement data for the Operating Day for which the Ancillary Service was procured.
(2)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its advisory Ancillary Service Obligation for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day, based on the Ancillary Service Plan, as well as that QSE’s proportional limit for any Self-Arranged Ancillary Services as set forth in Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities.
(3)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each QSE’s LRS used for both the advisory and final Ancillary Service Obligation calculations. 
(4)	The minimum Ancillary Service Obligation quantity will be 0.1 MW and will apply to both advisory and final values.
(5)	After DAM has published, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its final Ancillary Service Obligation based on the total DAM Ancillary Service procurement quantity, comprised of DAM Ancillary Service awards and Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day.