4.2.2	Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of wind production potential for each Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR).  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF) by wind region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide wind production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD) calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all wind-power in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  Each Generation Entity that owns a WGR shall install and telemeter to ERCOT the site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STWPF and TEWPF forecasts.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of WGR meteorological information telemetry. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of wind production potential for each Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) and for each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource.  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF) by wind region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide wind production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD) calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all wind-power in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  A Resource Entity with a WGR or DC-Coupled Resource that has a wind generation component shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STWPF and TEWPF forecasts, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of meteorological information telemetry for WGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a wind generation component.
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEWPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT WGR production is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STWPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEWPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each WGR such that the sum of the individual STWPF forecasts equal the TEWPF forecast.  The updated STWPF forecasts for each hour for each WGR are to be used as input into each Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEWPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT production of WGRs and the wind generation components of all DC-Coupled Resources is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STWPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEWPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource such that the sum of the individual STWPF forecasts equal the TEWPF forecast.  The updated STWPF forecasts for each hour for each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource are to be used as input into each Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment.
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by WGR owners including WGR availability, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by Resource Entities and QSEs representing WGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with wind generation components, including Resource availability, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STWPF and WGRPP forecasts for each WGR to the QSE that represents that WGR and shall post each STWPF and WGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STWPF and WGRPP forecasts for each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource to the QSE that represents that WGR or DC-Coupled Resource and shall post each STWPF and WGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
(5)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis the hourly actual wind power production, STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate Current Operating Plan (COP) High Sustained Limits (HSLs) for On-Line WGRs for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide and regional STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line WGRs will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STWPF and WGRPP for each hour.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis the hourly actual wind power production, STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate Current Operating Plan (COP) High Sustained Limits (HSLs) for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide and regional STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STWPF and WGRPP for each hour.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STWPF and WGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line WGRs for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STWPF and WGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
(7)	Every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis, five-minute actual wind power production for a rolling historical 60-minute period.