3.2.1	Calculation of Aggregate Resource Capacity
(1)	ERCOT shall use Outages in the Outage Scheduler and, when applicable, the Resource Status from the Current Operating Plan (COP) to calculate the aggregate capacity from Generation Resources and Load Resources projected to be available in the ERCOT Region and in Forecast Zones in ERCOT.  “Forecast Zones” have the same boundaries as the 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zones (CMZs).  Each Resource will be mapped to a Forecast Zone during the registration process.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall use Outages in the Outage Scheduler and, when applicable, the Resource Status from the Current Operating Plan (COP) to calculate the aggregate capacity from Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and Load Resources projected to be available in the ERCOT Region and in Forecast Zones in ERCOT.  “Forecast Zones” have the same boundaries as the 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zones (CMZs).  Each Resource will be mapped to a Forecast Zone during the registration process.
(2)	On a rolling hourly basis, ERCOT shall calculate the aggregate hourly Generation Resource capacity and Load Resource capacity in the ERCOT Region and Forecast Zones projected to be available during each hour for the following seven days.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	On a rolling hourly basis, ERCOT shall calculate the aggregate hourly Generation Resource capacity, ESR capacity, and Load Resource capacity in the ERCOT Region and Forecast Zones projected to be available during each hour for the following seven days.
(3)	Projections of Generation Resource capacity from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) shall be consistent with capacity availability estimates, such as the effective Load carrying capability of wind, developed jointly between ERCOT and the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee and approved by the ERCOT Board or typical production expectations consistent with expected wind profiles as appropriate for the scenario being studied.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	Projections of generation capacity from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) and the intermittent renewable generation components of DC-Coupled Resources shall be consistent with capacity availability estimates, such as the effective Load carrying capability of wind, developed jointly between ERCOT and the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee and approved by the ERCOT Board or typical production expectations consistent with expected wind profiles as appropriate for the scenario being studied.
(4)	ERCOT shall publish procedures describing the IRR forecasting process on the ERCOT website.