9.5.6	RTM Resettlement Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue a RTM Resettlement Statement using corrected Settlement data due to resolution of Settlement and billing disputes and the correction of errors other than price errors pursuant to this Section.  Any resettlement occurring after an RTM True-Up Statement has been issued must meet the same Interval Data Recorder (IDR) Meter Data Threshold requirements defined in Section 9.5.8, RTM True-Up Statement, and is subject to the same limitations for filing a dispute.  Despite the preceding sentence, the ERCOT Board may, in its discretion, direct ERCOT to run a resettlement of any Operating Day, at any time, to address unusual circumstances.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue a RTM Resettlement Statement for a given Operating Day due to errors other than errors in prices when:
(a)	The total of all errors other than price errors results in an absolute value impact greater than 4% of the total RTM Statement amount for any single Statement Recipient for the Operating Day;
(b)	The impact to the Statement Recipient is greater than $400.00; and
(c)	The error is discovered, and a Market Notice of the error is provided to Market Participants, within one year of the Operating Day at issue.
(3)	Changes to meter data managed through a process other than a dispute or Alternative Dispute Resolution will not require evaluation of a resettlement defined in paragraph (2) above.
(4)	For any Settlement and billing disputes resolved prior to issuance of the RTM Final Statement, ERCOT shall effect the dispute’s resolution on the RTM Final Statement for that Operating Day.  If a dispute is submitted by 15 Business Days after the issuance of the RTM Initial Statement for an Operating Day and is not resolved on the RTM Final Statement, ERCOT will affect the dispute’s resolution on an RTM Resettlement Statement for that Operating Day.  ERCOT shall issue such an RTM Resettlement Statement within a reasonable time after resolving the Settlement and billing dispute.  
(5)	ERCOT must effect the resolution of any dispute submitted more than 15 Business Days after the issuance of the RTM Initial Statement on the next available Resettlement or RTM True-Up statement for that Operating Day.  For Settlement and billing disputes resolved under Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process, and submitted at least 20 Business Days before the scheduled date for issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement, ERCOT will include adjustments relating to the dispute on the RTM True-Up Statement.  Resolved disputes must be included on the next available Settlement Invoice after ERCOT has issued the RTM True-Up Statement.
(6)	ERCOT may not issue an RTM Resettlement Statement less than 20 days before a scheduled RTM Final Statement or RTM True-Up Statement for the relevant Operating Day.  An RTM Resettlement Statement will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement Statement for the given Operating Day.
(7)	ERCOT may issue an RTM Resettlement Statement after the issuance of an RTM Final Statement in order to resolve approved disputes related to Section 5.6.5.2, RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs.
(8)	ERCOT may issue RTM Resettlement Statements after the timeline referenced in paragraph (2) above if directed by the ERCOT Board, the result of a resolution of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure, or under the procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.
(9)	If ERCOT is required to issue a Resettlement Statement per this Section, but resettlement is not practicable due to system limitations, ERCOT shall make the adjustments through a separate Invoice that is produced outside of normal Settlement Invoices.  The appropriate payments and charges, along with Settlement quality information, shall be supplied to all impacted Market Participants.