3.1.3	Rolling 12-Month Outage Planning and Update
3.1.3.1	Transmission Facilities
(1)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT a plan for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages and Rescheduled Outages in an ERCOT-provided format for the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, and Rescheduled Outage scheduling data for Transmission Facilities must be kept current.  Updates must identify all changes to any previously proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages and any additional Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages anticipated over the next 12 months.  ERCOT shall coordinate in-depth reviews of the 12-month plan with each TSP at least twice per year.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide to ERCOT a plan for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages in an ERCOT-provided format for the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, and Rescheduled Outage scheduling data for Transmission Facilities must be kept current.  Updates must identify all changes to any previously proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages and any additional Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages anticipated over the next 12 months.  ERCOT shall coordinate in-depth reviews of the 12-month plan with each TSP at least twice per year.
3.1.3.2	Resources
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide to ERCOT a Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plan for Generation Resources in an ERCOT-provided format for at least the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plans must be updated as soon as practicable following any change.  Updates, through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT, must identify any changes to previously proposed Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages and any additional Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages.
(2)	ERCOT shall report statistics monthly on how Resource Planned Outages compare with actual Resource Outages, and post those statistics to the MIS Secure Area.