3.1.4	Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facilities Outages
3.1.4.1	Single Point of Contact
(1)	All communications concerning a Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage must be between ERCOT and the designated “Single Point of Contact” for each TSP or Resource Entity.  All nonverbal communications concerning Planned Outages or Rescheduled Outages must be conveyed through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT.  The TSP or Resource Entity shall identify, in its initial request or response, the Single Point of Contact, with primary and alternate means of communication.  The Resource Entity or TSP shall submit a Notice of Change of Information (NCI) form (Section 23, Form E, Notice of Change of Information) when changes occur to a Single Point of Contact.  This identification must be confirmed in all communications with ERCOT regarding Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage requests.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	All communications concerning a Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage must be between ERCOT and the designated “Single Point of Contact” for each TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity.  All nonverbal communications concerning Planned Outages or Rescheduled Outages must be conveyed through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT.  The TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity shall identify, in its initial request or response, the Single Point of Contact, with primary and alternate means of communication.  The Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO shall submit a Notice of Change of Information (NCI) form (Section 23, Form E, Notice of Change of Information) when changes occur to a Single Point of Contact.  This identification must be confirmed in all communications with ERCOT regarding Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage requests.
(2)	The Single Point of Contact must be either a person or a position available seven days per week and 24 hours per day for each Resource Entity and TSP.  The Resource Entity shall designate its QSE as its Single Point of Contact.  The designated Single Point of Contact for a Generation Resource that has been split into two or more Split Generation Resources shall be the Master QSE.  The Single Point of Contact for the TSP must be designated under the ERCOT Operating Guides.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	The Single Point of Contact must be either a person or a position available seven days per week and 24 hours per day for each Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO.  The Resource Entity shall designate its QSE as its Single Point of Contact.  The designated Single Point of Contact for a Generation Resource that has been split into two or more Split Generation Resources shall be the Master QSE.  The Single Point of Contact for each TSP and DCTO must be designated under the ERCOT Operating Guides.
3.1.4.2	Method of Communication
(1)	ERCOT, each TSP, and each Resource Entity shall communicate according to ERCOT procedures under these Protocols.  All submissions, changes, approvals, rejections, and withdrawals regarding Outages must be processed through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler on the ERCOT programmatic interface, except for Forced Outages and Maintenance Level I Outages, which must be communicated to ERCOT immediately via the Current Operating Plan (COP) if submitted for a Resource and using the Outage Scheduler if submitted by a TSP.  This does not prohibit any verbal communication when the situation warrants it.  ERCOT shall develop guidelines for the types of events that may require verbal communication. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT and each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall communicate according to ERCOT procedures under these Protocols.  All submissions, changes, approvals, rejections, and withdrawals regarding Outages must be processed through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler on the ERCOT programmatic interface, except for Forced Outages and Maintenance Level I Outages, which must be communicated to ERCOT immediately via the Current Operating Plan if submitted for a Resource and using the Outage Scheduler if submitted by a TSP or DCTO.  This does not prohibit any verbal communication when the situation warrants it.  ERCOT shall develop guidelines for the types of events that may require verbal communication. 
3.1.4.3	Reporting for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Resource and Transmission Facilities
(1)	Each Resource Entity and TSP shall submit information regarding proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities or Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Generation Resources under procedures adopted by ERCOT.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain a Generation Resource that is part of or that affects the ERCOT System.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each TSP or Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain Transmission Facilities that are part of or affect the ERCOT System.  A Resource Entity or TSP is also obligated to submit information for Transmission Facilities or Generation Resources that are not part of the ERCOT System or that do not affect the ERCOT System if that information is required for regional security coordination as determined by ERCOT.
[NPRR857 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857; and upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity, TSP, and DCTO shall submit information regarding proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities or Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) under procedures adopted by ERCOT.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain a Generation Resource or ESR that is part of or that affects the ERCOT System.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain Transmission Facilities that are part of or affect the ERCOT System.  A Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO is also obligated to submit information for Transmission Facilities or Generation Resources or ESRs that are not part of the ERCOT System or that do not affect the ERCOT System if that information is required for regional security coordination as determined by ERCOT.
(2)	Before taking an RMR or Black Start Resource (“Reliability Resources”) out of service for a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage, the Single Point of Contact for that Reliability Resource must obtain ERCOT’s approval of the schedule of the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage.  ERCOT shall review and approve or reject each proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage Schedule under this Section and the applicable Agreements.
(3)	A Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource (FFSSR) shall not schedule or request a Planned Outage that would occur during the period of December 1 through March 1.
3.1.4.4	Management of Forced Outages or Maintenance Outages
(1)	In the event of a Forced Outage, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, or TSP must notify ERCOT by: 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	In the event of a Forced Outage, after the affected equipment is removed from service, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, TSP, or DCTO must notify ERCOT of its action by: 
(a)	For Resource Outages:
(i)	Changing the telemetered Resource Status to the appropriate Off-Line status as soon as practicable but no longer than 15 minutes after the Forced Outage occurs; 
(ii)	Updating the COP as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the Forced Outage occurs; and 
(iii)	Updating the Outage Scheduler, if necessary.  
(b)	For Transmission Facilities Forced Outages:
(i)	Changing the telemetered status of the affected Transmission Elements; and
(ii)	Updating the Outage Scheduler with the expected return-to-service time.
(c)	Each TSP and QSE shall timely update telemetry, COP status, and/or the Outage Scheduler, as applicable, in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) above unless in the reasonable judgment of the TSP or QSE, such compliance would create an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment.  The TSP or QSE is excused from updating the telemetered status, COP, and/or Outage Scheduler only for so long as the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment exists.  The time for updating the telemetered status, COP, and/or Outage Scheduler begins once the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment no longer exists.  
(2)	Forced Outages may require ERCOT to review and withdraw approval of previously approved or accepted, as applicable, Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage schedules to ensure reliability.
(3)	For Maintenance Outages, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, or TSP shall notify ERCOT of any Resource or Transmission Facilities Maintenance Outage according to the Maintenance Outage Levels by updating the COP and Outage Scheduler.  ERCOT shall coordinate the removal of facilities from service within the defined timeframes as specified by the TSP, QSE or Resource Entity in its notice to ERCOT.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	For Maintenance Outages, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, TSP, or DCTO shall notify ERCOT of any Resource or Transmission Facilities Maintenance Outage according to the Maintenance Outage Levels by updating the COP and Outage Scheduler.  ERCOT shall coordinate the removal of facilities from service within the defined timeframes as specified by the TSP, DCTO, QSE, or Resource Entity in its notice to ERCOT.
(4)	ERCOT may require supporting information describing Forced Outages and Maintenance Outages.  ERCOT may reconsider and withdraw approvals of other previously approved Transmission Facilities Outage or an Outage of a Reliability Resource as a result of Forced Outages or Maintenance Outages, if necessary, in ERCOT’s determination to protect system reliability.  When ERCOT approves a Maintenance Outage, ERCOT shall coordinate timing of the appropriate course of action under these Protocols.
(5)	Removal of a Resource or Transmission Facilities from service under Maintenance Outages must be coordinated with ERCOT.  To minimize harmful impacts to the system in urgent situations, the equipment may be removed immediately from service, provided notice is given immediately, by the Resource Entity or TSP, to ERCOT of such action.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	Removal of a Resource or Transmission Facilities from service under Maintenance Outages must be coordinated with ERCOT.  To minimize harmful impacts to the system in urgent situations, the equipment may be removed immediately from service, provided the Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO immediately gives notice of such action to ERCOT.
3.1.4.5	Notice of Forced Outage or Unavoidable Extension of Planned, Maintenance, or Rescheduled Outage Due to Unforeseen Events 
(1)	If a Planned, Maintenance, or Rescheduled Outage is not completed within the ERCOT-approved timeframe and the Transmission Facilities or Resources are in such a condition that they cannot be restored at the Outage schedule completion date, the requesting party shall submit to ERCOT a Forced Outage (unavoidable extension) form describing the extension of the Outage and providing a revised return date.
(2)	Any transmission Forced Outage that occurs in Real-Time and that is expected to continue for longer than two hours must be entered into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the Outage.  Any transmission Forced Outage with a duration exceeding two hours must be entered into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 150 minutes after the beginning of the transmission Forced Outage, if not already reported in the Outage Scheduler.
(3)	Any Resource Forced Outage that occurs in Real-Time must be entered into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the Forced Outage.
(4)	If the QSE is to receive the exemption described in paragraph (6)(d) of Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, the QSE will notify ERCOT Operators by voice communication of every Forced Outage, Forced Derate, or Startup Loading Failure within 15 minutes.
(5)	For a Startup Loading Failure, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter a Forced Outage in the Outage Scheduler if the Resource was in an Off-Line status prior to the Startup Loading Failure or update the existing Outage for the Resource if the Resource was on Outage prior to the Startup Loading Failure.  The Resource Entity or its designee must also provide a text entry in the supporting information field of the Outage Scheduler that includes the following:
(a)	A statement that a Startup Loading Failure occurred; 
(b)	An explanation of the cause of the Startup Loading Failure using the best available information at the time the Outage or update to the existing Outage is entered, which must be updated if more accurate information becomes available; and  
(c)	The start time and end time of the Startup Loading Failure portion of the Outage.  Multiple consecutive startup attempts may be aggregated into a single Startup Loading Failure event with a single start and end time.
3.1.4.6	Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions
(1)	If ERCOT forecasts an inability to meet applicable transmission reliability standards, has exercised all other reasonable options, and there is only one QSE with approved or accepted Resource Outages which could resolve the situation if the start of one or more of the Resource Outages at a single Resource site were delayed or one or more ongoing Resource Outages at a single Resource site were restored early, then ERCOT may contact that QSE and attempt to reach a mutually acceptable solution to delay or reschedule one or more of those Outages.  In this case, ERCOT is not obligated to follow the process described in Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities.  ERCOT shall not provide information to the QSE during these contacts which is not directly related to the QSE’s Planned Resource Outage(s) and is not otherwise available to all other Market Participants.
(2)	If ERCOT and the QSE are unable to reach a mutually agreeable solution to change the Resource Outage, ERCOT may issue an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) to the QSE for the Resource.  
[NPRR930:  Insert paragraph (3) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(3)	If there are Resources at multiple sites with approved or accepted Resource Outages, whose approval or acceptance could be withdrawn to meet the applicable transmission reliability standards, ERCOT shall utilize the process described in Section 3.1.6.9.
(3)	This Section is not intended to restrict ongoing Outage Coordination activities occurring more than seven days in advance of Real-Time.
3.1.4.7	Reporting of Forced Derates
(1)	If a Generation Resource experiences a Forced Derate in an amount greater than ten MW, and 5% of its Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating, and the Forced Derate lasts longer than 30 minutes, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter the Forced Derate into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the Forced Derate.
(2)	If a Forced Derate that has already been reported changes by an amount greater than ten MW and 5% of the Generation Resource’s Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating, and the change lasts longer than 30 minutes, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter the change as a new Forced Derate into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the change.
(3)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) above, for any Forced Derate or change to a Forced Derate that meets the reporting criteria specified in paragraph (1) or (2) above and that is caused by ambient temperature or humidity, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter the Forced Derate into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than eight hours after the beginning of the Force Derate or change.
(4)	The QSE must appropriately update the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) and any applicable telemetry as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, based on the Forced Derate, as soon as practicable but no longer than 15 minutes after the beginning of a Forced Derate, if the Forced Derate is greater than ten MW and more than 5% of the Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating of the Resource and its expected or actual duration is greater than 30 minutes.  Alternatively for a Forced Derate, a QSE may use the ONHOLD process described in paragraph (2) of Section 6.5.5.1, Changes in Resource Status.
(5)	The QSE must update the COP as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of a Forced Derate, if the Forced Derate is greater than 20 MW and its expected duration is greater than 120 minutes.
(6)	Each QSE shall timely update the telemetered HSL and COP unless in the reasonable judgment of the QSE, such compliance would create an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment.  The QSE is excused from updating the telemetered HSL and/or COP only for so long as the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment exists.  The time for updating the telemetered HSL and/or COP begins once the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment no longer exists.
3.1.4.8	Resource Forced Outage Report
(1)	Three days after each Operating Day, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website a report that identifies each Forced Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Forced Derate of a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that occurs during, or that extends into, that Operating Day.  At a minimum, the report shall contain:
(a)	The Resource name;
(b)	The Resource unit code;
(c)	The Resource’s fuel type;
(d)	The type of Outage or derate;
(e)	The Resource’s applicable Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating;
(f)	The available MW during the Outage or derate;
(g)	The effective MW reduction due to the Outage or derate;
(h)	The start date/time and the planned or actual end date/time; and 
(i)	The entry in the “nature of work” field in the Outage Scheduler for each Outage or derate.