3.10	Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT shall use the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all Transmission Elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Resource Entities to specify limits within which the transmission network is defined in the network models made available to Market Participants as noted below and used to operate the ERCOT Transmission Grid as updated.  If a Private Use Network is not registered as a Resource Entity, then ERCOT shall use equivalent model data provided by TSPs, if available, that represents the Private Use Network in the TSPs’ modeling systems for use in the Network Operations Model.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT shall use the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all Transmission Elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), and Resource Entities to specify limits within which the transmission network is defined in the network models made available to Market Participants as noted below and used to operate the ERCOT Transmission Grid as updated.  If a Private Use Network is not registered as a Resource Entity, then ERCOT shall use equivalent model data provided by TSPs, if available, that represents the Private Use Network in the TSPs’ modeling systems for use in the Network Operations Model.
(2)	Because the ERCOT market requires accurate modeling of Transmission Elements in order to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants, ERCOT shall manage the Network Operations Model.  By providing Base Points and pricing signals by Electrical Bus to Market Participants, the Market Participants’ responses result in power flows on all Transmission Elements that ERCOT must monitor and, if necessary for reliability reasons, manage within ratings provided by the TSP and Resource Entity and limits assigned by ERCOT including Generic Transmission Limits (GTLs) as may be defined in Section 3.10.7.6, Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Because the ERCOT market requires accurate modeling of Transmission Elements in order to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants, ERCOT shall manage the Network Operations Model.  By providing Base Points and pricing signals by Electrical Bus to Market Participants, the Market Participants’ responses result in power flows on all Transmission Elements that ERCOT must monitor and, if necessary for reliability reasons, manage within ratings provided by each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity and limits assigned by ERCOT including Generic Transmission Limits (GTLs) as may be defined in Section 3.10.7.6, Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits.
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities shall provide ERCOT with equipment ratings and update the ratings as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT may request TSPs and Resource Entities to provide detailed information on the methodology, including data for determination of each requested rating.  ERCOT may review and comment on the methodology.  ERCOT shall post all methodologies on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within seven days following a change in methodology. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with equipment ratings and update the ratings as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT may request that a TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity provide detailed information on the methodology, including data for determination of each requested rating.  ERCOT may review and comment on the methodology.  ERCOT shall post all methodologies on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within seven days following a change in methodology. 
(4)	ERCOT must use system ratings consistent with the ratings expected to be used during Real-Time for the system condition being modeled, including Dynamic Ratings using expected temperatures for those system conditions.  For each model, ERCOT shall post ratings and the ambient temperatures used to calculate the ratings on the MIS Secure Area when the model is published. 
(5)	ERCOT shall use consistent information within and between the various models used by ERCOT in a manner that yields consistent results.  For operational and planning models that are intended to represent the same system state the results should be consistent and the naming should be identical.  
(6)	ERCOT shall use a Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) process to control all information entering the Network Operations Model.  In order to allow for construction schedules, each NOMCR must be packaged as a single package describing any incremental changes and referencing any prerequisite NOMCRs, using an industry standard data exchange format.  A package must contain a series of instructions that define the changes that need to be made to implement a network model change.  ERCOT shall verify each package for completeness and accuracy prior to the period it is to be implemented.  
(7)	ERCOT shall use an automated process to manage the Common Information Model (CIM) compliant packages loaded into the Network Operations Model as each construction phase is completed.  ERCOT shall reject any NOMCRs that are not CIM compliant.  Each CIM compliant NOMCR must also be associated with commands to update the graphical displays associated with the network model modification.  During the testing phase, each NOMCR must be tested for proper sequencing and its effects on downstream applications.
(8)	ERCOT shall track each data submittal received from TSPs via the NOMCR process and from Resource Entities via the Resource Registration process.  Resource Registration data is converted by ERCOT to the appropriate NOMCR format through implementation and final testing of the change.  ERCOT shall notify each TSP and Resource Entity when the requested change is processed and implemented in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall also provide the submitting TSP a link to a Network Operations Model containing the change for verifying the implementation of the NOMCR and associated one-line displays.  ERCOT shall post all NOMCRs on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only within five Business Days following receipt of the NOMCR, consistent with the requirements regarding ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  When posting a NOMCR, each change must be posted using the CIM data exchange format showing incremental changes to the last Network Operations Model for TSPs only, to facilitate TSPs in updating their internal network models to reflect changes made at ERCOT.  For each NOMCR, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only the current status on the in-service date for each NOMCR, including any prerequisite NOMCRs provided by the requestor. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	ERCOT shall track each data submittal received from TSPs and DCTOs via the NOMCR process and from Resource Entities via the Resource Registration process.  Resource Registration data is converted by ERCOT to the appropriate NOMCR format through implementation and final testing of the change.  ERCOT shall notify each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity when the requested change is processed and implemented in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall also provide the submitting TSP and DCTO a link to a Network Operations Model containing the change for verifying the implementation of the NOMCR and associated one-line displays.  ERCOT shall post all NOMCRs on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only within five Business Days following receipt of the NOMCR, consistent with the requirements regarding ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  When posting a NOMCR, each change must be posted using the CIM data exchange format showing incremental changes to the last Network Operations Model for TSPs only, to facilitate TSPs in updating their internal network models to reflect changes made at ERCOT.  For each NOMCR, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only the current status on the in-service date for each NOMCR, including any prerequisite NOMCRs provided by the requestor. 
(9)	ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model under this Section and coordinate it with the planning models for consistency to the extent applicable.  
(10)	Any requestor of any changes in system topology or telemetry must receive approval from ERCOT before connecting of any associated equipment to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall notify a requestor of any deficiencies in its submittal for changes in system topology or telemetry.  ERCOT shall accept corrections to the submittal if the requestor has corrected any deficiencies by the required submittal date specified in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall post any changes to an NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs within three Business Days of accepting corrections.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(10)	Any requestor of any changes in system topology or telemetry must receive approval from ERCOT before connecting of any associated equipment to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall notify a requestor of any deficiencies in its submittal for changes in system topology or telemetry.  ERCOT shall accept corrections to the submittal if the requestor has corrected any deficiencies by the required submittal date specified in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall post any changes to a NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs and DCTOs within three Business Days of accepting corrections.
(11)	On receipt of the information set forth in Section 3.10.7, ERCOT System Modeling Requirements, ERCOT shall review the information and notify the requestor of any required modifications.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, require changes or more details regarding the work plan for any new or relocated facilities.  The requestor shall notify ERCOT and any other affected Entities as soon as practicable of any ERCOT requested changes to the work plan.  The requestor shall consult with other Entities likely to be affected and shall revise the work plan, following any necessary or appropriate discussions with ERCOT and other affected Entities.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the request, including any revisions made by the requestor, within 15 days of receipt of the complete request and any revisions.  Following ERCOT approval, ERCOT shall publish a summary of the revised NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(11)	On receipt of the information set forth in Section 3.10.7, ERCOT System Modeling Requirements, ERCOT shall review the information and notify the requestor of any required modifications.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, require changes or more details regarding the work plan for any new or relocated facilities.  The requestor shall notify ERCOT and any other affected Entities as soon as practicable of any ERCOT requested changes to the work plan.  The requestor shall consult with other Entities likely to be affected and shall revise the work plan, following any necessary or appropriate discussions with ERCOT and other affected Entities.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the request, including any revisions made by the requestor, within 15 days of receipt of the complete request and any revisions.  Following ERCOT approval, ERCOT shall publish a summary of the revised NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs and DCTOs.