3.10.3	CRR Network Model
(1)	ERCOT shall develop models for Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auctions that contain, as much as practicable, information consistent with the Network Operations Model.  Names of Transmission Elements in the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Model must be identical for the same physical equipment. 
(2)	ERCOT shall verify that the names of Hub Buses and Electrical Buses used to describe the same device in any Hub are identically named in both the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Model. 
(3)	Each CRR Network Model must include:
(a)	A system-wide diagram including all modeled Transmission Elements (except those within Private Use Networks) and Resource Nodes;
(b)	Station one-line diagrams for all Settlement Points (indicating the Settlement Point that the Electrical Bus is a part of) and including all Hub Buses used to calculate Hub prices (if applicable), except those within Private Use Networks;
(c)	Generation Resource locations;
(d)	Transmission Elements;
(e)	Transmission impedances;
(f)	Transmission ratings, excluding Relay Loadability Ratings;
(g)	Contingency lists;
(h)	Data inputs used in the calculation of Dynamic Ratings, and 
(i)	Other relevant assumptions and inputs used for the CRR Network Model.
(4)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or DSPs and all appropriate Market Participants, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, the CRR Network Model.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the EPRI and NERC-sponsored CIM and web based XML communications or PSS/E format.
3.10.3.1	Process for Managing Network Operations Model Updates for Point of Interconnection Bus Changes, Resource Retirements and Deletion of DC Tie Load Zones 
(1)	Following the permanent change in Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB) of all Resources associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT shall retain the associated Settlement Point in the Network Operations Model at its existing location, an electrically similar location, or until all outstanding CRRs associated with that Settlement Point have expired as determined in accordance with the Other Binding Document, “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”  Following the retirement of all Resources associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT shall move the Resource Node to a proxy Electrical Bus.  The proxy Electrical Bus will be selected by finding the nearest energized Electrical Bus with the least impedance equipment between the existing Resource Node and the proxy Electrical Bus.  For purposes of the CRR Auction model for calendar periods that are prior to the expiration date of all CRRs associated with the Settlement Point, the Settlement Point will continue to be available as a sink or source for CRR Auction transaction submittals.  For calendar periods that are beyond the expiration date of all CRRs associated with the Settlement Point, the Settlement Point will not be available for transaction submittals in the associated CRR Auctions.  The Settlement Point will be removed from the Network Operations Model once all associated CRRs have expired.
(2)	When a Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) is to be permanently removed from service, ERCOT will delete the associated DC Tie Load Zone from the Network Operations Model after all outstanding CRRs associated with that DC Tie Load Zone have expired.  The DC Tie Load Zone will continue to be available as a sink or source Settlement Point for transaction submittals in CRR Auctions for calendar periods that are prior to the scheduled deletion date of the DC Tie Load Zone; however, the DC Tie Load Zone will no longer be an available Settlement Point for transaction submittals in CRR Auctions for calendar periods that are after the scheduled deletion date of the DC Tie Load Zone.