3.10.4	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall design, install, operate, and maintain its systems and establish applicable related processes to meet the State Estimator Standards for Transmission Elements that under typical system conditions potentially affect the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) as described in Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards, and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Standards.  ERCOT shall post all documents relating to the State Estimator Standards on the MIS Secure Area.
(2)	During Real-Time, ERCOT shall calculate LMPs and take remedial actions to ensure that actual flow on a given Transmission Element is less than the Normal Rating and any calculated flow due to a contingency is less than the applicable Emergency Rating and 15-Minute Rating.
(3)	ERCOT shall install Network Operations Model test facilities that will accommodate execution of a test Real-Time sequence and preliminary test LMP calculator to demonstrate the correct operation of new Network Operations Models prior to releasing the model to Market Participants for detail testing and verification.  The Network Operations Model test facilities support power flow and contingency analyses to test the data set representation of a proposed transmission model update and simulate LMP calculations using typical test data.
(4)	ERCOT shall install EMS test and simulation facilities that accommodate execution of the State Estimator and LMP calculator, respectively.  These facilities will be used to conduct tests prior to placing a new model into ERCOT’s production environment to verify the new model’s accuracy.  The EMS test facilities allow a potential model to be tested before replacing the current production environment model.  The EMS test and simulation facilities must perform Real-Time security analysis to test a proposed transmission model before replacing the current production environment model. The EMS State Estimator test facilities must have Real-Time ICCP links to test the state estimation function using actual Real-Time conditions.  The EMS LMP test facilities must accept data uploads from the production environment providing Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Resource offers, and telemetry via ICCP.  If the production data are unavailable, ERCOT may employ a data simulation tool or process to develop test data sets for the LMP test facilities.  For TSPs, ERCOT shall acquire model comparison software that will show all differences between subsequent versions of the Network Operations Model and shall make this information available to TSPs only within one week following test completion.  For non-TSP Market Participants, ERCOT shall post the differences within one week following test completion between subsequent versions of the Redacted Network Operations Model on the MIS Secure Area.  This comparison shall indicate differences in device parameters, missing or new devices, and status changes.
(5)	When implementing Transmission Element changes, ERCOT shall correct errors uncovered during testing that are due to submission of inaccurate information.  Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide reasonably accurate information at the time of the original submission.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	When implementing Transmission Element changes, ERCOT shall correct errors uncovered during testing that are due to submission of inaccurate information.  Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide reasonably accurate information at the time of the original submission.  
(6)	ERCOT may update the model on an interim basis, outside of the timeline described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes, for the correction of temporary configuration changes in a system restoration situation, such as after a storm, or correction of impedances and ratings.  
(7)	Interim updates to the Network Operations Model caused by unintentional inconsistencies of the model with the physical transmission grid may be made.  If an interim update is implemented, ERCOT shall report changes to the PUCT Staff and the IMM.  ERCOT shall provide Notice via electronic means to all Market Participants and post the Notice on the MIS Secure Area detailing the changed model information and the reason for the interim update within two Business Days following the report to PUCT Staff and the IMM.
(8)	A TSP and Resource Entity, with ERCOT’s assistance, shall validate its portion of the Network Operations Model according to the timeline provided in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall provide TSPs access, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, to an environment of the ERCOT EMS where the Network Operations Model and the results of the Real-Time State Estimator are available for review and analysis within five minutes of the Real-Time solution.  This environment is provided as a tool to TSPs to perform power flow studies, contingency analyses and validation of State Estimator results.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities, with ERCOT’s assistance, shall validate their portion of the Network Operations Model according to the timeline provided in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall provide TSPs access, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, to an environment of the ERCOT EMS where the Network Operations Model and the results of the Real-Time State Estimator are available for review and analysis within five minutes of the Real-Time solution.  This environment is provided as a tool to TSPs to perform power flow studies, contingency analyses and validation of State Estimator results.  
(9)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII, the Network Operations Model used to manage the reliability of the transmission system as well as proposed Network Operations Models to be implemented at a future date.  ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area the Redacted Network Operations Model, consistent with the requirements regarding release of ECEII, as well as proposed Redacted Network Operations Models to be implemented at a future date.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the EPRI and NERC-sponsored CIM and web-based XML communications.