3.10.5	TSP Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP shall design, implement, operate, and maintain its systems to meet the requirements of Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for measurements facilitating the observability of the Electrical Buses used for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  However, there is no obligation to re-construct or retrofit already existing installations except as shown to be needed in order to comply with Section 3.10.7.5 and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.  
(2)	TSPs shall add telemetry to equipment it owns and directly operates and controls at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5.  Nothing in this subsection prohibits a TSP from adding telemetry to equipment it does not own but directly operates and controls.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT planned construction information, including Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application milestone dates if applicable, all of which shall be updated according to a schedule established by ERCOT.  
(4)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT project status updates of Transmission Facilities that are part of an Reliability Must-Run (RMR) or Must Run Alternative (MRA) exit strategy corresponding to a specific RMR or MRA Agreement that has not been terminated, which shall be updated by the first Business Day of each month, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date.
(5)	A QSE must receive approval from a TSP prior to using the TSP’s telemetry as part of a Generation Resource’s Bulk Electric System protection scheme or for generation control.  If a TSP has approved a QSE’s use of the TSP’s telemetry, the TSP shall inform the QSE of any telemetry changes with reasonable notice prior to the change or where prior notice is not possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, including discontinuation of the TSP’s provision of such telemetry, and the timeline for the changes.
[NPRR857:  Replace Section 3.10.5 above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.10.5	TSP and DCTO Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP and DCTO shall design, implement, operate, and maintain its systems to meet the requirements of Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for measurements facilitating the observability of the Electrical Buses used for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  However, there is no obligation to re-construct or retrofit already existing installations except as shown to be needed in order to comply with Section 3.10.7.5 and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.  
(2)	Each TSP and DCTO shall add telemetry to equipment it owns and directly operates and controls at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5.  Nothing in this subsection prohibits a TSP from adding telemetry to equipment it does not own but directly operates and controls.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide to ERCOT planned construction information, including Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application milestone dates if applicable, all of which shall be updated according to a schedule established by ERCOT.  
(4)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT project status updates of Transmission Facilities that are part of an Reliability Must-Run (RMR) or Must Run Alternative (MRA) exit strategy corresponding to a specific RMR or MRA Agreement that has not been terminated, which shall be updated by the first Business Day of each month, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date.
(5)	A QSE must receive approval from a TSP prior to using the TSP’s telemetry as part of a Generation Resource’s Bulk Electric System protection scheme or for generation control.  If a TSP has approved a QSE’s use of the TSP’s telemetry, the TSP shall inform the QSE of any telemetry changes with reasonable notice prior to the change or where prior notice is not possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, including discontinuation of the TSP’s provision of such telemetry, and the timeline for the changes.