3.10.7	ERCOT System Modeling Requirements
(1)	The following subsections contain the fidelity requirements for the ERCOT Network Operations Model. 
3.10.7.1	Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters
(1)	ERCOT, each TSP, and each Resource Entity shall coordinate to define each Transmission Element such that the TSP’s control center operational model and ERCOT’s Network Operations Model are consistent.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT and each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall coordinate to define each Transmission Element such that the TSP’s control center operational model and ERCOT’s Network Operations Model are consistent.
(2)	Each Transmission Element must have a unique identifier using a consistent naming convention used between ERCOT, Resource Entities, and TSPs.  ERCOT shall develop the naming convention with the assistance of the TSP and the approval of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).  In addition to the Network Operations Model releases described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Change Requests, ERCOT shall provide all names and parameters of all Transmission Elements to Market Participants posted on MIS Secure Area by 0600 each day.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Each Transmission Element must have a unique identifier using a consistent naming convention used between ERCOT, Resource Entities, TSPs, and DCTOs.  ERCOT shall develop the naming convention with the assistance of the TSP and the approval of TAC.  In addition to the Network Operations Model releases described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Change Requests, ERCOT shall provide all names and parameters of all Transmission Elements to Market Participants posted on MIS Secure Area by 0600 each day.
(3)	If the responsible TSP submits a NOMCR for non-operational changes, such as name changes for Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall implement the request. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	If the responsible TSP or DCTO submits a NOMCR for non-operational changes, such as name changes for Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall implement the request.
(4)	Resource Entities shall provide the data requested in this Section through the Resource Registration data provided pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(4)	Each Resource Entity shall provide the data requested in this Section through the Resource Registration data provided pursuant to relevant authorities, including Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.
[NPRR1133:  Insert paragraph (5) below upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
(5)	Each DC Tie Facility owner shall provide the model data needed to accurately reflect the physical characteristics of the DC Tie Facility in ERCOT’s Network Operations Model to its DCTO, and the DCTO shall submit the data to ERCOT.  The DC Tie Facility owner is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data submitted to ERCOT through its DCTO.
3.10.7.1.1	Transmission Lines
(1)	ERCOT shall model each transmission line that operates in excess of 60 kV.
(2)	For each of its transmission lines operated as part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, each TSP and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information consistent with the ratings methodology prescribed in the ERCOT Operating Guides:
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	For each of its transmission lines operated as part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, each TSP, DCTO, and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information consistent with the ratings methodology prescribed in the ERCOT Operating Guides:
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	Transmission Element name;
(d)	Line impedance;
(e)	Normal Rating, Emergency Rating, 15-Minute Rating, Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating, and Relay Loadability Rating; and 
(f)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	The TSP and Resource Entity may submit special transfer limits and stability limits for secure and reliable grid operations for ERCOT approval.  ERCOT has sole decision-making authority and responsibility to determine the limits to be applied in grid operations.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	The TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity may submit special transfer limits and stability limits for secure and reliable grid operations for ERCOT approval.  ERCOT has sole decision-making authority and responsibility to determine the limits to be applied in grid operations.
(4)	The TSP and Resource Entity may implement protective relay and control systems and set values appropriate to de-energize faulted equipment and meet the TSP and Resource Entity obligations for public or employee safety, and when necessary to prevent in-service or premature equipment failure consistent with Good Utility Practice and accepted industry standards.  The TSP and Resource Entity shall include those limits as Relay Loadability Ratings when providing ERCOT with ratings or proposed transfer limits.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(4)	The TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity may implement protective relay and control systems and set values appropriate to de-energize faulted equipment and meet the TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity obligations for public or employee safety, and when necessary to prevent in-service or premature equipment failure consistent with Good Utility Practice and accepted industry standards.  The TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall include those limits as Relay Loadability Ratings when providing ERCOT with ratings or proposed transfer limits.
(5)	The Network Operations Model must use rating categories for Transmission Elements as defined in the ERCOT Operating Guides.
3.10.7.1.2	Transmission Buses
(1)	ERCOT shall model each Electrical Bus that operates as part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid in excess of 60 kV and that is required to model switching stations or transmission Loads.
(2)	Each TSP and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters:
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Each TSP, DCTO, and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters:
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name; 
(e)	A description of all transmission circuits that may be connected through breakers or switches; and
(f)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	To accommodate the Outage Scheduler, the TSP and Resource Entity may define a separate name and Transmission Element for any Electrical Bus that can be physically separated by a manual switch or breaker within a substation. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	To accommodate the Outage Scheduler, the TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity may define a separate name and Transmission Element for any Electrical Bus that can be physically separated by a manual switch or breaker within a substation. 
3.10.7.1.3	Transmission Breakers and Switches
(1)	ERCOT’s Network Operations Model must include all transmission breakers and switches, the operation of which may cause a change in the flow on transmission lines or Electrical Buses.  Breakers and switches may only be connected to defined Electrical Buses.
(2)	Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name;
(e)	Connectivity; 
(f)	Normal status;
(g)	Synchronism Check Relay phase angle limits that are applied to operator-initiated, non-automated control actions of TSP-owned transmission breakers; and
[NPRR857:  Replace item (g) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857:]
(g)	Synchronism Check Relay phase angle limits that are applied to operator-initiated, non-automated control actions of TSP-owned or DCTO-owned transmission breakers; and
(h)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	ERCOT shall develop methods to accurately model changes in transmission line loading resulting from Load rollover schemes transferring more than ten MW.  This may include modeling distribution circuit breakers, dead line sensing, or other methods that signal when the Load should be transferred from one transmission line to another transmission line.  ERCOT may employ heuristic rule sets for all manual Load transfers and for automated transfers where feasible.  ERCOT application software is required to model the effects of automatic or manual schemes in the field transfer Load under line outage conditions.  Each TSP and as applicable, Resource Entity, shall define the Load rollover schemes under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, and furnish this information to ERCOT.  Transmission field (right-of-way) switches must be connected to a named Electrical Bus and be included in the Network Operations Model.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	ERCOT shall develop methods to accurately model changes in transmission line loading resulting from Load rollover schemes transferring more than ten MW.  This may include modeling distribution circuit breakers, dead line sensing, or other methods that signal when the Load should be transferred from one transmission line to another transmission line.  ERCOT may employ heuristic rule sets for all manual Load transfers and for automated transfers where feasible.  ERCOT application software is required to model the effects of automatic or manual schemes in the field transfer Load under line outage conditions.  Each TSP and as applicable, each DCTO and Resource Entity, shall define the Load rollover schemes under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, and furnish this information to ERCOT.  Transmission field (right-of-way) switches must be connected to a named Electrical Bus and be included in the Network Operations Model.
3.10.7.1.4	Transmission, Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generation Resource Step-Up Transformers
(1)	ERCOT shall model all transformers with a nominal low side (i.e., secondary, not tertiary) voltage above 60 kV.  
(2)	For Generation Resources, ERCOT shall model all Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generator Step-Up (GSU) transformers greater than ten MVA to provide for accurate representation of generator voltage control capability including the capability to accept a system operator entry of a specific no-load tap position, or if changeable under Load, accept telemetry of the current tap position.
(3)	Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with information to accurately describe each transformer in the Network Operations Model including any tertiary Load as required by ERCOT.  Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with information to accurately describe each transformer in the Network Operations Model including any tertiary Load as required by ERCOT.  Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name;
(e)	Winding ratings, including Normal Rating, Emergency Rating, 15-Minute Rating, Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating, and Relay Loadability Rating;
(f)	Connectivity; 
(g)	Transformer parameters, including all tap parameters; and
(h)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(4)	The Resource Entity shall provide parameters for each MPT to ERCOT as part of the Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.  ERCOT shall provide the information to TSPs.  Each TSP shall coordinate with the operators of the Resources connected to their respective systems to establish the proper transformer tap positions (no-load taps) and the equipment owner shall report any changes to ERCOT using the NOMCR process or other ERCOT prescribed means.  Each Resource Entity and each TSP shall schedule generation Outages at mutually agreeable times to implement tap position changes when necessary.  If mutual agreement cannot be reached, then ERCOT shall decide where to set the tap position to be implemented by the Resource Entity at the next generation Outage, considering expected impact on system security, future Outage plans, and participants.  TSPs shall provide ERCOT and Market Participants with notice in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities, (except for emergency) prior to the tap position change implementation date.  
(5)	ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area information regarding all transformers represented in the Network Operations Model.
3.10.7.1.5	Reactors, Capacitors, and other Reactive Controlled Sources
(1)	ERCOT shall model all controlled reactive devices.  Each Market Participant shall provide ERCOT with complete information on each device’s capabilities and normal switching schema.
(2)	Each Market Participant shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters:
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name;
(e)	Voltage or time switched on;
(f)	Voltage or time switched off;
(g)	Associated switching device name;
(h)	Connectivity; 
(i)	Nominal voltage and associated capacitance or reactance; and
(j)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	The ERCOT Operating Guides must include parameters for standard reactor and capacitor switching plans for use in the Network Operations Model.  ERCOT shall model the devices under Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities, in all applicable ERCOT applications and systems.  ERCOT shall provide copies of the switching plan to the Market Participants via the MIS Secure Area.  Any change in TSP guidelines or switching plan must be provided to ERCOT before implementation (except for emergency).  Any change in guidelines or switching plan must be provided in accordance with the NOMCR process or other ERCOT-prescribed process.
3.10.7.2	Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT and its interconnecting TSP with information describing each of its Generation Resources, SOGs, and Load Resources connected to the ERCOT System.  All Transmission Generation Resources (TGRs), Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs), and the non-TSP owned MPTs greater than ten MVA, must be modeled to provide equivalent generation injections to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall coordinate the modeling of Generation Resources, Private Use Networks, and Load Resources with their owners to ensure consistency between TSP models and ERCOT models.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT and its interconnecting TSP with information describing each of its Generation Resources, SOGs, SOESSs, and Load Resources connected to the ERCOT System.  All Transmission Generation Resources (TGRs), Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs), Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage Systems (SOTESSs), and the non-TSP MPTs greater than ten MVA, must be modeled to provide equivalent generation injections to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall coordinate the modeling of Generation Resources, Private Use Networks, and Load Resources with their owners to ensure consistency between TSP models and ERCOT models.
(2)	Each Resource Entity representing either a Load Resource or an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR) shall provide ERCOT and, as applicable, its interconnecting DSP and TSP, with information describing each such Resource as specified in Section 3.7.1.2, Load Resource Parameters, and any additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT, in accordance with the timelines set forth in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall coordinate the modeling of ALRs with Resource Entities.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to map Load Resources to their appropriate Load in the Network Operations Model.
(3)	Each Resource Entity representing a Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) or Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR) that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT, its interconnecting DSP, and the TSP that interconnects the DSP to the transmission system with information describing each of its DGR or DESR facilities, and additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT and the interconnecting DSP.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to represent the registered DGR or DESR facilities at their appropriate Electrical Bus in the Network Operations Model.
(4)	Each Resource Entity representing a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) facility that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (5) of Section 16.5 shall provide ERCOT, its interconnecting DSP, and the TSP that interconnects the DSP to the transmission system with information describing each of its SODG facilities, and additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to map registered SODG facilities to their appropriate Load in the Network Operations Model.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each Resource Entity representing a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) or Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) facility that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (5) of Section 16.5 shall provide ERCOT, its interconnecting DSP, and the TSP that interconnects the DSP to the transmission system with information describing each of its SODG or SODESS facilities, and additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to map registered SODG or SODESS facilities to their appropriate Load in the Network Operations Model.
(5)	Each Resource Entity representing a Split Generation Resource shall provide information to ERCOT and TSPs describing an individual Split Generation Resource for its share of the generation facility to be represented in the Network Operations Model in accordance with Section 3.8, Special Considerations.  The Split Generation Resource must be modeled as connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid on the low side of the generation facility MPT.  
(6)	ERCOT shall create a DC Tie Resource to represent an equivalent generation injection to represent the flow into the ERCOT Transmission Grid from operation of DC Ties.  The actual injection flow on the DC Tie from telemetry provided by the facility owner(s) is the DC Tie Resource output. 
(7)	TSPs shall provide ERCOT with information describing all transmission Load connections on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Individual Load connections may be combined, at the discretion of ERCOT, with other Load connections on the same transmission line to represent a Model Load to facilitate state estimation of Loads that do not telemeter Load measurements.  ERCOT shall define “Model Loads”, which may be one or more combined Loads, for use in its Network Operations Model.  A Model Load cannot be used to represent Load connections that are in different Load Zones.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(7)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide ERCOT with information describing all transmission Load connections on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Individual Load connections may be combined, at the discretion of ERCOT, with other Load connections on the same transmission line to represent a Model Load to facilitate state estimation of Loads that do not telemeter Load measurements.  ERCOT shall define “Model Loads”, which may be one or more combined Loads, for use in its Network Operations Model.  A Model Load cannot be used to represent Load connections that are in different Load Zones.  
(8)	ERCOT may require TSPs to provide additional Load telemetry to provide adequate modeling of the transmission system in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards.  When the TSP does not own the station for which additional Load telemetry is being requested, the TSP shall request that the owner make the telemetry available.  The TSP shall notify ERCOT if the owner does not comply with the request.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	ERCOT may require TSPs and DCTOs to provide additional Load telemetry to provide adequate modeling of the transmission system in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards.  When the TSP or DCTO does not own the station for which additional Load telemetry is being requested, the TSP shall request that the owner make the telemetry available.  The TSP or DCTO shall notify ERCOT if the owner does not comply with the request.  
(9)	ERCOT shall create a DC Tie Load to represent an equivalent Load withdrawal to represent the flow from the ERCOT Transmission Grid from operation of DC Ties.  The actual withdrawal flow on the DC Tie from telemetry provided by the facility owner(s) is the DC Tie Load output. 
(10)	Each TSP shall also provide information to ERCOT describing automatic Load transfer (rollover) plans and the events that trigger which Loads are switched to other Transmission Elements on detection of Outage of a primary Transmission Element.  ERCOT shall accommodate Load rollover plans in the Network Operations Model.
(11)	Loads associated with a Generation Resource in a common switchyard as defined in Section 10.3.2.3, Generation Netting for ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters, and served through a transformer owned by the Resource Entity is treated as an auxiliary Load and must be netted first against any generation meeting the requirements under Section 10.3.2.3. 
(12)	If the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) determines, in the processing of Outages, that a Load Resource, DGR, or DESR is de-energized in the ERCOT Network Operations Model, the de-energized Resource will be eligible to receive Ancillary Service awards in the DAM, but will not be eligible to receive energy awards in the DAM.
(13)	A Resource Entity may aggregate Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) generation equipment together to form an IRR (Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) or PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR)) if the generation equipment is behind the same main power transformer and is the same model and size, and the aggregation does not reduce ERCOT’s ability to model pre- and post-contingency conditions.  A Resource Entity may also aggregate IRR generation equipment that is not the same model and size together with an existing IRR only if:
(a)	The mix of IRR generation equipment models and sizes causes no degradation in the dynamic performance of the IRR represented by the parameters modeled by ERCOT in operational studies and the aggregation of IRR generation equipment does not limit ERCOT’s ability to model the ERCOT Transmission Grid and the relevant contingencies required for monitoring pre- and post-contingency system limits and conditions;
(b)	The mix of IRR generation equipment is included in the Resource Registration data submitted for the WGR;
(c)	All relevant IRR generation equipment data requested by ERCOT is provided;
(d)	With the addition of dissimilar IRR generation equipment, the existing IRR shall continue to meet the applicable Protocol performance requirements, including but not limited to Primary Frequency Response, dynamic capability and Reactive Power capability, at the POIB; and
(e)	Either:
(i)	No more than the lower of 5% or ten MW aggregate capacity is of IRR generation equipment that is not the same model or size from the other equipment within the existing IRR; or
(ii)	The wind turbines that are not the same model or size meet the following criteria:
(A)	The IRR generation equipment has similar dynamic characteristics to the existing IRR generation equipment, as determined by ERCOT in its sole discretion;
(B)	The MW capability difference of each generator is no more than 10% of each generator’s maximum MW rating; and
(C)	For WGRs, the manufacturer’s power curves for the wind turbines have a correlation of 0.95 or greater with the other wind turbines within the existing WGR over wind speeds of 0 to 18 m/s. 
3.10.7.2.1	Reporting of Demand Response
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website by the fifth Business Day after the start of a calendar month a report of the MW of Demand response that is participating in the past month in Emergency Response Service (ERS), Ancillary Service as a Load Resource, or any pilot project permitted by subsection (k) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.361, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT).  The data shall be aggregated according to the corresponding 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ).  Data for participation in ERS shall be based on contracted amounts for each type of service for that calendar month.  ERCOT shall set out separately MW contracted from both ERS Generators and generators that are participating by offsetting ERS Loads (with aggregated and non-aggregated ERS Generators set forth separately) and MW of ERS Loads.  To the extent that a participating generator is not registered with ERCOT, information about the nameplate rating of the generator and the maximum deliverable to the ERCOT Transmission Grid or to serve native load shall be collected through the ERS contracting process.  The report shall include these values for each ERS Contract Period broken down by ERS Time Period.  Data for Ancillary Services shall be based on the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility contained in the Current Operating Plan (COP) as of the start of the Adjustment Period for each Operating Day.  ERCOT’s posting of Ancillary Service and pilot project participation data shall include the average MW capacity by service type by hour (or by another time period, if a pilot project service is not procured hourly).
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website by the fifth Business Day after the start of a calendar month a report of the MW of Demand response that is participating in the past month in Emergency Response Service (ERS), Ancillary Service as a Load Resource, or any pilot project permitted by subsection (k) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.361, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT).  The data shall be aggregated according to the corresponding 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ).  Data for participation in ERS shall be based on contracted amounts for each type of service for that calendar month.  ERCOT shall set out separately MW contracted from both ERS Generators and generators that are participating by offsetting ERS Loads (with aggregated and non-aggregated ERS Generators set forth separately) and MW of ERS Loads.  To the extent that a participating generator is not registered with ERCOT, information about the nameplate rating of the generator and the maximum deliverable to the ERCOT Transmission Grid or to serve native load shall be collected through the ERS contracting process.  The report shall include these values for each ERS Contract Period broken down by ERS Time Period.  Data for Ancillary Services shall be based on the Ancillary Service Resource awards in the RTM.  ERCOT’s posting of Ancillary Service and pilot project participation data shall include the average MW capacity by service type by hour (or by another time period, if a pilot project service is not procured hourly).
3.10.7.2.2	Annual Demand Response Report
(1)	On an annual basis, ERCOT shall work with Market Participants to produce a report summarizing aggregate customer counts and MWs enrolled in Demand response in the ERCOT Region pursuant to subsection (e)(5) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.505, Reporting Requirements and the Scarcity Pricing Mechanism in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas Power Region.  This report shall be posted to the ERCOT website no later than December 31 of each reporting calendar year.  Technical requirements for providing information to ERCOT for the report are located in the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”.  ERCOT may, for purposes of this section, associate Entities; however, ERCOT shall not determine Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs) to be associated based on their membership in a generation and transmission cooperative or as a result of being a party to a single Load Serving Entity (LSE) registration.
(a)	Retail Electric Providers (REPs) in competitive regions of ERCOT shall be ranked in descending order by their average daily consumption for summer (June – September) weekdays excluding holidays.  The largest REPs that account for 98% of the total shall be required to participate in the survey for the subsequent calendar year.  For purposes of assigning this participation requirement, REPs determined by ERCOT to be associated shall have their consumption aggregated prior to the ranking.
(b)	NOIE Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) operating in the ERCOT Region that register a summer month (June – September) 15-minute interval peak Demand greater than or equal to 100 MW, shall be required to participate in the survey the subsequent calendar year.  For purposes of assigning this participation requirement, NOIEs determined by ERCOT to be associated shall have their 15-minute interval peak Demand aggregated prior to the ranking.  Participation in the survey shall be the responsibility of either the NOIE TDSP or the NOIE LSE associated with that TDSP based on which entity is responsible for administering Demand response programs within the NOIE TDSP footprint.
(2)	By December 31 of each year, ERCOT shall provide advance notice of participation status.  To the extent that REPs discontinue participation in the ERCOT market or change associations prior to the snapshot date, ERCOT will send revised notices to REPs affected by such changes no later than August 1 of the survey year.  ERCOT shall:
(a)	Analyze the summer consumption for all NOIEs and REPs and determine which are required to participate in the Demand response survey for the following year;
(b)	Provide advance notice, via email to the Authorized Representative, to all NOIEs and REPs regarding their participation status; and
(c)	Provide a list of all REPs or NOIE TDSPs to the Authorized Representative, including all those determined by ERCOT to be associated, to which the participation status applies.
(3) 	By August 1 of the survey year, ERCOT shall provide official notice of the beginning of the Demand response data collection process.  ERCOT shall:
(a)	Issue a Market Notice to notify all REPs and NOIEs that the annual Demand response data collection process is beginning.  The Market Notice shall make reference to this Protocol section, and shall reiterate specifics of the timeline for the survey process that are to be followed;
(b) 	Send a reminder email to the Authorized Representative for all REPs, NOIE LSEs and NOIE TDSPs of their participation status.  The email shall also contain the list of all REPs or NOIE TDSPs, for which participation status applies.  The list shall include all REPs or NOIE TDSPs determined by ERCOT to be associated.  This list shall be updated based on any changes in associations that have occurred since the time the advance notice was issued.
(4) 	By August 15 of the survey year, REPs and NOIEs that are required to participate in that year’s survey, and that will have Customers participating in one or more Demand response program as of the snapshot date of September 1 shall reply to ERCOT with the following:
(a) 	An acknowledgement of the participation requirement;
(b) 	An indication that they expect to have Customers participating in one or more Demand response programs on the snapshot date of September 1;
(c)	A list of contact people and their email address within their organization that should receive copies of communications related to the survey from ERCOT; 
(d) 	Specifically for REPs, an indication as to which of the methods described in the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications” the REP intends to use to submit files to and receive files from ERCOT; and
(e) 	Specifically for NOIEs, an indication as to whether the NOIE TDSP or the NOIE LSE is responsible for administering the Demand response programs within the NOIE TDSP area.
(5) 	By August 15 of the survey year, REPs and NOIEs that are required to participate in that year’s survey, and that do not plan to have any Customers participating in Demand response programs as of the snapshot date of September 1 shall reply to ERCOT indicating the lack of such participation.  REPs and NOIEs that are not required to participate in that year’s survey are not required to reply to ERCOT. 
(6)	By October 15 of the survey year, the REPs participating in that year’s survey shall compile the required Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) participation data in the format specified by the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”, and submit the data to ERCOT. 
(7)	By October 31 of the survey year, the REPs participating in that year’s survey that have reported participation in programs which entail REP-initiated deployments shall compile the required deployment event participation data in the format specified by the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”, and submit the data to ERCOT. 
(8)	By October 31 of the survey year, the NOIEs participating in that year’s survey shall compile the required data in the format specified by the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”, and submit the data to ERCOT. 
(9)	ERCOT shall validate the submitted reports, and indicate any errors and inconsistencies that require correction to the REP or NOIE, within two Business Days of the submission in the manner specified in the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”.  
(10)	On or before October 31 of the survey year, REPs shall address the errors and inconsistencies and submit corrected reports to ERCOT.  ERCOT will notify the Authorized Representative for each REP and/or NOIE when they have achieved the required level of accuracy.
(11)	On or before November 7 of the survey year, NOIEs shall address the errors and inconsistencies and submit corrected reports to ERCOT.  ERCOT will notify the Authorized Representative for each REP and/or NOIE when they have achieved the required level of accuracy.
(12)	Information provided by NOIEs and REPs to meet the above described reporting requirements shall be treated as Protected Information in accordance with Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
3.10.7.3	Modeling of Private Use Networks
(1)	ERCOT shall create and use network models describing Private Use Networks according to the following:
(a)	A Generation Entity with a Resource located within a Private Use Network shall provide data to ERCOT, for use in the Network Operations Model, for each of its individual generating unit(s) located within the Private Use Network in accordance with Section 3.3.2.1, Information to Be Provided to ERCOT, if it meets any one of the following criteria:
(i)	Contains a generator greater than ten MW and is registered with the PUCT according to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.109, Registration of Power Generation Companies and Self-Generators, as a power generation company; or
(ii)	Is part of a Private Use Network which contains more than one connection to the ERCOT Transmission Grid; or
(iii)	Contains generation registered to provide Ancillary Services.
(b)	A Generation Entity with an SOTSG shall provide to ERCOT annually, or more often upon change, the following information for ERCOT’s use in the Network Operations Model, for each of its individual generating unit(s) located within the Private Use Network:
(i)	Equipment owner(s);
(ii)	Equipment operator(s);
(iii)	TSP substation name connecting the Private Use Network to the ERCOT System; 
(iv)	At the request of ERCOT, a description of Transmission Elements within the Private Use Network that may be connected through breakers or switches;
(v)	Net energy delivery metering, as required by ERCOT, to and from the Private Use Network and the ERCOT System at the POIB; 
(vi)	For each individual generator located within the Private Use Network, the gross capacity in MW and its reactive capability curve;
(vii)	Maximum and minimum reasonability limits of the Load located within the Private Use Network;
(viii)	Outage schedule for each generation unit located within the Private Use Network, updated as changes occur from the annually submitted information; and
(ix)	Other interconnection data as required by ERCOT.
(c)	Energy delivered to ERCOT from an SOTSG shall be settled in accordance with Section 6.6.3.2, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Load Zone.
(d)	ERCOT shall ensure the Network Operations Model properly models the physical effect of the loss of generators and Transmission Elements on the ERCOT Transmission Grid equipment loading, voltage, and stability.  
(e)	ERCOT may require the owner or operator of a Private Use Network to provide information to ERCOT and the TSP on Transmission Facilities located within the Private Use Network for use in the Network Operations Model if the information is required to adequately model and determine the security of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, including data to perform loop flow analysis of Private Use Networks.
(f)	ERCOT shall review submittals of modeling data from owners or operators of Private Use Networks assure that it will result in correct analysis of ERCOT Transmission Grid security.
3.10.7.4	Remedial Action Schemes, Automatic Mitigation Plans and Remedial Action Plans
(1) 	All approved Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and Remedial Action Plans (RAPs) must be defined in the Network Operations Model where practicable. 
(2) 	Proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs must be submitted to ERCOT for review and approval. ERCOT shall seek input from TSPs and Resource Entities that own Transmission Facilities included in the RASs or AMPs or RAPs, and shall approve proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs in accordance with the process outlined in the Operating Guides. This shall include verification of the Network Operations Model. ERCOT shall provide notification to the market and post all RASs, AMPs and RAPs under consideration on the MIS Secure Area within five Business Days of receipt. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2) 	Proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs must be submitted to ERCOT for review and approval.  ERCOT shall seek input from TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities that own Transmission Facilities included in the RASs or AMPs or RAPs, and shall approve proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs in accordance with the process outlined in the Operating Guides.  This shall include verification of the Network Operations Model.  ERCOT shall provide notification to the market and post all RASs, AMPs and RAPs under consideration on the MIS Secure Area within five Business Days of receipt.
(3)	ERCOT shall use a NOMCR to model approved RASs, AMPs and RAPs where practicable and include the RASs, AMPs or RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model in the security analysis. The NOMCR shall include a detailed description of the system conditions required to implement the RASs, AMPs or RAPs. If an approved RAS, AMP, or RAP cannot be modeled, then ERCOT shall develop an alternative method for recognizing the unmodeled RAS, AMP, or RAP in its tools. Execution of RASs, AMPs or RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model shall be included or assumed in the calculation of LMPs. ERCOT shall provide notification to the market and post on the MIS Secure Area all approved RASs, AMPs and RAPs at least two Business Days before implementation, identifying the date of implementation. The notification to the market shall state whether the approved RAP, AMP, or RAS will be modeled in the Network Operations Model.  For RAPs developed in Real-Time, ERCOT shall provide notification to the market as soon as practicable.
3.10.7.5	Telemetry Requirements
(1)	The telemetry provided to ERCOT necessary to support the State Estimator must meet the requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.
(2)	The telemetry provided to ERCOT by each TSP and QSE must be updated at a ten second or less scan rate and be provided to ERCOT at the same rate.  Each TSP and QSE shall install appropriate condition detection capability to notify ERCOT of potentially incorrect data from loss of communication or scan function.  Condition codes must accompany the data to indicate its quality and whether the data has been measured within the scan rate requirement.  Also, ERCOT shall analyze data received for possible loss of updates.  Similarly, ERCOT shall provide condition detection capability on loss of telemetry links with the TSP and QSE.  ERCOT shall represent data condition codes from each TSP and QSE in a consistent manner for all applicable ERCOT applications.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	The telemetry provided to ERCOT by each TSP, QSE, or DCTO must be updated at a ten second or less scan rate and be provided to ERCOT at the same rate.  Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall install appropriate condition detection capability to notify ERCOT of potentially incorrect data from loss of communication or scan function.  Condition codes must accompany the data to indicate its quality and whether the data has been measured within the scan rate requirement.  Also, ERCOT shall analyze data received for possible loss of updates.  Similarly, ERCOT shall provide condition detection capability on loss of telemetry links with the TSP, DCTO, and QSE.  ERCOT shall represent data condition codes from each TSP, DCTO, and QSE in a consistent manner for all applicable ERCOT applications.
(3)	Each TSP and QSE shall use fully redundant ICCP links between its control center systems and ERCOT systems such that any single element of the communication system can fail and:
(a)	For server failures, complete information must be re-established within five minutes by automatic failover to alternate server(s); and
(b)	For all other failures, complete information must continue to flow between the TSP’s, QSE’s, and ERCOT’s control centers with updates of all data continuing at a 30 second or less scan rate.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall use fully redundant ICCP links between its control center systems and ERCOT systems such that any single element of the communication system can fail and:
(a)	For server failures, complete information must be re-established within five minutes by automatic failover to alternate server(s); and
(b)	For all other failures, complete information must continue to flow between the TSP’s, DCTO’s, QSE’s, and ERCOT’s control centers with updates of all data continuing at a 30 second or less scan rate.
(4)	When ERCOT identifies a reliability concern, a deficiency in system observability, or a deficiency in measurement to support the representation of Model Loads, and that concern or deficiency is not due to any inadequacy of the State Estimator program, additional telemetry may be requested as described in Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry.
3.10.7.5.1	Continuous Telemetry of the Status of Breakers and Switches
(1)	Each TSP and QSE shall be responsible for providing telemetry, as described in this subsection, to ERCOT on the status of all breakers and switches it owns or its Resource owns, respectively, used to switch any Transmission Element or Load modeled by ERCOT.  
(2)	Each TSP and QSE is not required to install telemetry on individual breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, where the telemetered status shown to ERCOT is current and free from ambiguous changes in state caused by the TSP or Resource Entity switching operations and TSP or Resource Entity personnel.
(3)	Each TSP, Resource Entity, or QSE shall update the status of any breaker or switch it owns or is responsible for through manual entries, if necessary, to communicate the actual current state of the device to ERCOT, except if the change in state is expected to return to the prior state within one minute.  
(4)	If in the sole opinion of ERCOT, the manual updates of the TSP or QSE have been unsuccessful in maintaining the accuracy required to support State Estimator performance to a TAC-approved predefined standard as described in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, ERCOT may request that the TSP or QSE install complete telemetry from the breaker or switch it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the TSP or QSE, and then to ERCOT.  
(a)	In making the determination to request installation of additional telemetry from a breaker or switch, ERCOT shall consider the economic implications of inaccurate representation of Model Loads in LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
(b)	If the TSP or QSE disputes the request for additional telemetry on individual breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, it may appeal the request pursuant to Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraphs (1) through (4) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall provide telemetry, as described in this subsection, to ERCOT on the status of all breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively used to switch any Transmission Element or Load modeled by ERCOT.
(2)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE is not required to install telemetry on individual breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, where the telemetered status shown to ERCOT is current and free from ambiguous changes in state caused by the TSP, DCTO, or QSE switching operations and TSP, DCTO, or QSE personnel.  
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall update the status of any breaker or switch it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, through manual entries, if necessary, to communicate the actual current state of the device to ERCOT, except if the change in state is expected to return to the prior state within one minute.  
(4)	If in the sole opinion of ERCOT, the manual updates of the TSP, DCTO, or QSE have been unsuccessful in maintaining the accuracy required to support State Estimator performance to a TAC-approved predefined standard as described in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, ERCOT may request that the TSP, DCTO, or QSE install complete telemetry from the breaker or switch it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the TSP, DCTO, or QSE, and then to ERCOT.  
(a)	In making the determination to request installation of additional telemetry from a breaker or switch, ERCOT shall consider the economic implications of inaccurate representation of Model Loads in LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
(b)	If the TSP or associated QSE disputes the request for additional telemetry it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, it may appeal the request pursuant to Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry.
(5)	ERCOT shall measure TSP and QSE performance in providing accurate data that do not include ambiguous changes in state and shall report the performance metrics on the MIS Secure Area on a monthly basis.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	ERCOT shall measure TSP, DCTO, and QSE performance in providing accurate data that do not include ambiguous changes in state and shall report the performance metrics on the MIS Secure Area on a monthly basis.  
(6)	Unless there is an Emergency Condition, TSPs and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT to purposely open a breaker or switch unless that breaker or switch is shown in a Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.  Also, TSPs and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT before closing any breaker or switch, except in response to a Forced Outage, or an emergency, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(6)	Unless there is an Emergency Condition, TSPs, DCTOs, and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT to purposely open a breaker or switch unless that breaker or switch is shown in a Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.  Also, TSPs, DCTOs, and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT before closing any breaker or switch, except in response to a Forced Outage, or an emergency, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.
(7)	ERCOT shall monitor the data condition codes of all breakers and switches showing loss of communication or scan function in the Network Operations Model.  When the telemetry of breakers and switches is lost, ERCOT shall use the last known state of the device for security analysis as updated by the Outage Scheduler and through verbal communication with the TSP or QSE.  ERCOT’s systems must identify probable errors in switch or breaker status and ERCOT shall act to resolve or correct such errors in a timely manner as described in Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(7)	ERCOT shall monitor the data condition codes of all breakers and switches showing loss of communication or scan function in the Network Operations Model.  When the telemetry of breakers and switches is lost, ERCOT shall use the last known state of the device for security analysis as updated by the Outage Scheduler and through verbal communication with the TSP, DCTO, or QSE.  ERCOT’s systems must identify probable errors in switch or breaker status and ERCOT shall act to resolve or correct such errors in a timely manner as described in Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations.
(8)	ERCOT shall establish a system that provides alarms to ERCOT Operators when there is a change in status of any monitored transmission breaker or switch, and an indication of whether the device change of status was planned in the Outage Scheduler.  ERCOT Operators shall monitor any changes in status not only for reliability of operations, but also for accuracy and impact on the operation of the SCED functions and subsequent potential for calculation of inaccurate LMPs.
(9)	Each QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource, with metering according to Section 3.8, Special Considerations, shall provide ERCOT with telemetry of the actual generator breakers and switches continuously providing ERCOT with the status of the individual Split Generation Resource.
3.10.7.5.2	Continuous Telemetry of the Real-Time Measurements of Bus Load, Voltages, Tap Position, and Flows
(1)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide telemetry of voltages, flows, and Loads on any modeled Transmission Element it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the extent such may be required to estimate all transmission Load withdrawals and generation injections to and from the ERCOT Transmission Grid using the State Estimator and as needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, with consideration given to the economic implications of inaccurate LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall provide telemetry of voltages, flows, and Loads on any modeled Transmission Element it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the extent such may be required to estimate all transmission Load withdrawals and generation injections to and from the ERCOT Transmission Grid using the State Estimator and as needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, with consideration given to the economic implications of inaccurate LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
(2)	Each QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource, with metering according to Section 3.8, Special Considerations, shall provide ERCOT with telemetry of the actual equivalent generator injection of its Split Generation Resource and the Master QSE shall provide telemetry in accordance with Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, on a total Generation Resource basis.  ERCOT shall calculate the sum of each QSE’s telemetry on a Split Generation Resource and compare the sum to the telemetry for the total Generation Resource.  ERCOT shall notify each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource of any errors in telemetry detected by the State Estimator.
(3)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide telemetered measurements at a periodicity of ten seconds on modeled Transmission Elements it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to ensure State Estimator observability of any monitored voltage and power flow between their associated transmission breakers to the extent such can be shown to be needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9.  On monitored non-Load substations, ERCOT may request additional telemetry in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5.10, ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall provide telemetered measurements at a periodicity of ten seconds on modeled Transmission Elements it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to ensure State Estimator observability of any monitored voltage and power flow between their associated transmission breakers to the extent such can be shown to be needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9.  On monitored non-Load substations, ERCOT may request additional telemetry in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5.10, ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry.
(4)	The accuracy of the State Estimator is critical to successful market operations.  For this reason it is a critical objective for ERCOT to maintain reasonable and accurate results of the State Estimator.  ERCOT shall use all reasonable efforts to achieve that objective, including the provision of legitimate constraints used in calculating LMPs.  
(5)	Each TSP, QSE and ERCOT shall develop a continuously operated program to maintain telemetry of all Transmission Element measurements to provide accurate State Estimator results as outlined in Section 3.10.9.  For any location where there is a connection of multiple, measured, Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall have an automated process to detect and notify ERCOT System operators if the residual sum of all telemetered measurements is more than:
(a)	5% of the largest line Normal Rating at the State Estimator Bus; or 
(b)	Five MW, whichever is greater.  
If a location chronically fails this test, ERCOT shall notify the applicable TSP or QSE and suggest actions that the TSP or QSE could take to correct the failure.  Within 30 days, the TSP or QSE shall take the actions necessary to correct the failure or provide ERCOT with a detailed plan with a projected time frame to correct the failure.  ERCOT shall post a notice on the MIS Secure Area of any State Estimator Buses not meeting the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, including a list of all measurements and the residual errors on a monthly basis.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	Each TSP, DCTO, QSE, and ERCOT shall develop a continuously operated program to maintain telemetry of all Transmission Element measurements to provide accurate State Estimator results as outlined in Section 3.10.9.  For any location where there is a connection of multiple, measured, Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall have an automated process to detect and notify ERCOT System operators if the residual sum of all telemetered measurements is more than:
(a)	5% of the largest line Normal Rating at the State Estimator Bus; or 
(b)	Five MW, whichever is greater.  
If a location chronically fails this test, ERCOT shall notify the applicable TSP, DCTO, or QSE and suggest actions that the TSP, DCTO, or QSE could take to correct the failure.  Within 30 days, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE shall take the actions necessary to correct the failure or provide ERCOT with a detailed plan with a projected time frame to correct the failure.  ERCOT shall post a notice on the MIS Secure Area of any State Estimator Buses not meeting the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, including a list of all measurements and the residual errors on a monthly basis.  
(6)	ERCOT shall implement a study mode version of the State Estimator with special tools designed for troubleshooting and tuning purposes that can be used independently of any other ERCOT process that is dependent on the Real-Time State Estimator.  ERCOT shall implement a process to recognize inaccurate State Estimator results and shall create and implement alternative Real-Time LMP calculation processes for use when inaccurate results are detected.  ERCOT must be guided in this by Section 3.10.9.
(7)	ERCOT shall establish a system to provide overload and over/under limit alarming on all Transmission Elements monitored as constraints in the LMP models.
(8)  	Each TSP shall designate which telemetered measurement of the POIB voltage shall be utilized to determine compliance with Voltage Set Point instructions, and then update the designation as necessary in the Network Operations Model by submitting a NOMCR.  Each TSP shall telemeter this POI kV bus measurement to ERCOT.  If the TSP cannot provide a kV bus measurement at the POI, the TSP may propose an alternate location subject to ERCOT approval.
[NPRR1098:  Insert paragraph (9) below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(9)	Each TO designated by a DCTO operating a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) of Section 3.15.4, Direct Current Tie Owner and Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support, shall designate which telemetered measurement of the POIB voltage shall be utilized to determine compliance with target voltage instructions, and then update the designation as necessary in the Network Operations Model by submitting a NOMCR.  Each TO shall telemeter this POI kV bus measurement to ERCOT via ICCP and the DCTO via telemetry.  If the TO cannot provide a kV bus measurement at the POI, the TO may propose an alternate location subject to ERCOT approval.
3.10.7.5.3 	Required Telemetry of Voltage and Power Flow
(1)	QSEs, Resource Entities and TSPs as indicated in each subsection below shall provide power operation data to ERCOT, including, but not limited to:
(a)	Real-Time generation data from QSEs; 
(b)	Planned and Forced Outage information from QSEs; 
(c)	Network data from TSPs and QSEs , including:
(i)	Breaker and line switch status of all ERCOT Transmission Grid devices;  
(ii)	Line flow MW and MVAr;
(iii)	Breaker and switch status connected to any Resource;
(iv)	Transmission Facility voltages; and 
(v)	Transformer MW, MVAr and tap;
(d)	Real-Time generation and Load Resource meter data from QSEs;
(e)	Real-Time generation meter splitting signal from QSEs;
(f)	Transmission Facility Planned and Forced Outage information from TSPs;
(g)	Network transmission data (model and constraints) from TSPs; and
(h)	Resource modeling data, including any Resource owned transmission equipment data from Resource entity; and
(i)	Dynamic schedules from QSEs.
(2)	Real-Time data will be provided to ERCOT at the same scan rate as the TSP, Resource Entity, or QSE obtains the data from telemetry unless ERCOT requests a slower rate.
3.10.7.5.4	General Telemetry Performance Criteria
(1)	The following criteria will apply to telemetry provided to ERCOT.  Performance is posted on the MIS Secure Area in accordance with Nodal Operating Guide Section 9, Monitoring Programs:
(a)	Each TSP shall maintain the sum of flows into any telemetered bus it owns or is responsible for less than the greater of five MW or 5% of the largest normal line rating at each bus.
(b)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide data to ERCOT that meets the following availability:
(i)	92% of all telemetry provided to ERCOT must achieve a quarterly availability of 80%.  Availability shall be measured based on end-to-end connectivity of the communications path and the passing of Real-Time data with a Valid, Manual, or Calculated quality code at the scheduled periodicity.  Quality codes are defined in Section 3.10.7.5.8.1, Data Quality Codes.
(ii)	TSPs shall make reasonable efforts to obtain data from Customers associated with new Customer-owned substations to meet this requirement or obtain agreement from ERCOT that these Customers have entered into arrangements with ERCOT to provide this data to ERCOT.  If the data cannot be obtained under either of these methods, ERCOT shall report such case to the IMM.
(c)	Exceptions to the general telemetry performance criteria may be made, at ERCOT’s sole discretion, for data points not significant in the solution of the State Estimator or required for the reliable operation on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Examples of such data points include but are not limited to:
(i)	A substation with no more than two transmission lines and less than ten MW of peak Load;
(ii)	Connection of Loads along a continuous, non-branching circuit that may be combined for telemetry purposes; and
(iii)	Substations connected radially to the ERCOT Transmission Grid. 
(d)	During a Force Majeure Event, ERCOT may suspend requirements until normal operations have resumed.
3.10.7.5.5	Supplemental Telemetry Performance Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall identify specific MW/MVAr telemetry pairs, not exceeding 10% of the Transmission Elements within the ERCOT System, and the 20 station voltage points that are most important to reliability, system observability or support of State Estimator performance, or are of a commercial market concern. 
(2)	The important telemetry points identified pursuant to this Section must meet more stringent criteria for accuracy and availability where specifically addressed.  ERCOT shall review this list annually.  ERCOT shall publish the list of important telemetry points quarterly on the MIS Secure Area.
(3)	ERCOT shall use the following criteria to identify the important telemetry points: 
(a) 	Loss of a telemetry point that results in the inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a transmission line operated at 345 kV or above.
(b) 	Loss of a telemetry point that results in the inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a 345/138 kV autotransformer.
(c) 	Loss of a telemetry point that results in the inability of ERCOT to monitor the loading on Transmission Facilities designated as important to transmission reliability by ERCOT.  
(d) 	Telemetry necessary to monitor Transmission Elements identified as causing 80% of all congestion cost in the year for which the most recent data is available.
(e) 	Telemetry necessary to monitor the bus voltages at the 20 most important station voltage points. 
(4)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide data to ERCOT such that 92% of the important telemetry points identified achieve a quarterly availability of 90%.  Availability shall be measured based on end-to-end connectivity of the communications path and the passing of Real-Time data with Valid, Manual, or Calculated quality codes at the scheduled periodicity.  Quality codes are defined in Section 3.10.7.5.8.1, Data Quality Codes.
3.10.7.5.6	TSP/QSE Telemetry Restoration
(1)	Telemetered data shall be provided continuously.  Real-Time data restoration shall comply with Nodal Operating Guide Sections 7.3.3, Data from WAN Participants to ERCOT, and 7.3.4, Resolving Real-Time Data Issues that affect ERCOT Network Security Analysis.  
(2)	Some data may be more essential to the State Estimator solution.  ERCOT shall inform the TSP or QSE if, in the sole opinion of ERCOT, a data item is essential and needs to be repaired as quickly as possible.  QSEs and TSPs shall make repair procedures and records available to ERCOT upon request.  When ERCOT notifies a data provider that a data element is providing telemetry data inconsistent with surrounding measurements, the provider shall, within 30 days, do one of the following: 
(a) 	Calibrate or repair the failing equipment; 
(b) 	Request an outage to schedule calibration or repair of the failing equipment; 
(c) 	Provide ERCOT with a plan to re-calibrate or repair the equipment in a reasonable time frame; or 
(d)	Provide ERCOT with engineering analysis proving the data element is providing accuracy within its specifications.   
(3)	Before ERCOT requests review or re-calibration of a problem piece of equipment, it shall discuss the problem with the data provider to attempt to arrive at a consensus decision on the most appropriate action. 
3.10.7.5.7	Calibration, Quality Checking, and Testing
(1)	It is the responsibility of the equipment owner to insure that calibration, testing, and other routine maintenance of equipment is done on a timely basis, and that accuracy meets or exceeds the requirements specified in this Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for both the overall system and for individual equipment where detailed herein.  Coordination with ERCOT of outages required for these activities is also the responsibility of the owner.
3.10.7.5.8	Inter-Control Center Communications Protocol (ICCP) Links
3.10.7.5.8.1	Data Quality Codes
(1)	Market Participants shall provide documentation to ERCOT describing their native system quality codes and defining the conversion of their quality codes into the ERCOT-defined quality codes. 
(2)	Statuses and analogs telemetered to ERCOT shall be identified with the following quality codes:
(a)	Valid – Represents an analog or status the TSP or QSE considers valid.
(b)	Manual – Represents an analog or status entered manually at the Market Participant (i.e., not received from the field electronically).
(c)	Calculated – Represents an analog point that the TSP or QSE calculates.
(d)	Suspect – Represents an analog or status of which the TSP or QSE is unsure of the validity 
(e)	Invalid – Represents an analog or status that the Market Participant has identified as out of reasonability limits.
(f)	Com_fail – Informs ERCOT that due to communications failure, the analog or status provided ERCOT is not current.
3.10.7.5.8.2	Reliability of ICCP Associations
(1)	Each Market Participant using ICCP associations must achieve a monthly availability of 98%, excluding approved Planned Outages.  Availability shall be measured based on end-to-end connectivity of the communications path and the passing of configured data at the scheduled periodicity.  To meet the 98% monthly availability, each Market Participant should establish a process to coordinate downtime for ICCP associations and database maintenance.  High availability configuration as allowed by the ERCOT Nodal ICCP Communication Handbook should be treated as a single association to achieve this availability measure.  
3.10.7.5.9	ERCOT Requests for Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT is required to protect Transmission Facilities operated at 60 kV or above from damage.  To do this, ERCOT may request that additional telemetry be installed, while attempting to minimize adding equipment to as few locations as practicable.
(2)	ERCOT may request additional telemetry when it determines that network observability or the measurement redundancy is not adequate to produce acceptable State Estimator results.
(3)	Prior to making a request for additional telemetry, ERCOT shall provide evidence supporting a congestion or reliability problem requiring additional observability and define expected improvements in ERCOT System observability needed.  If the request is for telemetry additions at more than one location, ERCOT shall prioritize the requested additions.
(4)	No later than 60 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, the TSP or QSE shall:
(a)	Accept ERCOT’s request for additional telemetry and notify ERCOT of the implementation schedule, which shall be no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry;
(b)	Provide an alternative proposal to ERCOT, for implementation no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry, that meets the requirements described by ERCOT;
(c)	Propose a normal topology change by changing normal status of switch(es) in the area that would eliminate the security violations that are ERCOT’s concern; 
(d)	Indicate that the requested telemetry point is at a location where the TSP or QSE does not have the authority to install the requested telemetry.  For points on privately owned facilities connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, an attempt will be made to facilitate ERCOT's telemetry request;
(e)	Provide ERCOT an analysis of the cost to comply with the request, so that, ERCOT can perform a cost justification with respect to the LMP market; or
(f)	If the TSP or QSE disagrees with the request, the TSP or QSE may request that ERCOT withdraw its request for additional telemetry.  
[NPRR979:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
(4)	No later than 60 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE shall:
(a)	Accept ERCOT’s request for additional telemetry and notify ERCOT of the implementation schedule, which shall be no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry;
(b)	Provide an alternative proposal to ERCOT, for implementation no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry, that meets the requirements described by ERCOT;
(c)	Propose a normal topology change by changing normal status of switch(es) in the area that would eliminate the security violations that are ERCOT’s concern; 
(d)	Indicate that the requested telemetry point is at a location where the TSP, DCTO, or QSE does not have the authority to install the requested telemetry.  For points on privately owned facilities connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, an attempt will be made to facilitate ERCOT's telemetry request;
(e)	Provide ERCOT an analysis of the cost to comply with the request, so that, ERCOT can perform a cost justification with respect to the LMP market; or
(f)	If the TSP, DCTO, or QSE disagrees with the request, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE may request that ERCOT withdraw its request for additional telemetry.   
(5) 	If ERCOT rejects an alternative proposal pursuant to paragraph (4)(b), (c), or (f) above, the TSP or QSE may appeal the original request to TAC within 30 days of receiving notice of ERCOT’s rejection.  If, after receiving an appeal, TAC does not resolve the appeal within 65 days, the TSP or QSE may present its appeal to the ERCOT Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a TSP or QSE is not required to provide telemetry measurements from a location not owned by that TSP or QSE if the location owner does not grant access to the TSP or QSE for the purpose of obtaining such measurements.  ERCOT shall report such cases to the IMM.
[NPRR979:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
(5)	If ERCOT rejects an alternative proposal pursuant to paragraph (4)(b), (c), or (f) above, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE may appeal the original request to TAC within 30 days of receiving notice of ERCOT’s rejection.  If, after receiving an appeal, TAC does not resolve the appeal within 65 days, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE may present its appeal to the ERCOT Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a TSP, DCTO, or QSE is not required to provide telemetry measurements from a location not owned by that TSP, DCTO, or QSE if the location owner does not grant access to the TSP, DCTO, or QSE for the purpose of obtaining such measurements.  ERCOT shall report such cases to the IMM.
3.10.7.5.10	ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT shall maintain redundancy on monitored non-Load substations.
(2)	ERCOT shall identify new telemetry required to maintain N-1 observability on monitored non-Load substations.  The following conditions shall be used to determine what additional telemetry is required:
(a)	Inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a transmission line operated at 345 kV or above.
(b)	Inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a 345/138 kV autotransformer.
(c)	Inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on Transmission Facilities designated as important to transmission reliability by ERCOT. 
(3)	ERCOT may request additional MW, MVAr and voltage telemetry to make these measurements redundant.  In this request, ERCOT shall identify these measurements, and the contingency/overload condition and the unit dispatch that makes this a concern.  If the request is for telemetry at multiple locations, ERCOT shall prioritize the requested additions.
(4)	Except as provided in paragraph (5) below, no later than 60 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, a TSP or QSE shall:
(a)	Accept ERCOT’s request for additional telemetry and notify ERCOT of the implementation schedule, which shall be no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry; or
(b)	Propose an alternative solution that will serve the same purpose as the ERCOT identified telemetry additions, with a proposed implementation no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry;
(5)	In cases where the request is based on the availability rate of an existing telemetry point, no later than 30 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, the TSP or QSE shall:
(a)	Provide a plan to improve the availability rate of the identified telemetry to meet the requirements of paragraph (1)(b)(i) of Section 3.10.7.5.4, General Telemetry Performance Criteria, and paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.7.5.5, Supplemental Telemetry Performance Criteria;
(b)	Provide documentation for why the improvements set forth in paragraph (a) above cannot be accomplished;
(c)	Identify and propose a schedule of equipment installations or maintenance to be completed no later 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry that would, as a result, change the classification of the Transmission Element identified by ERCOT; or
(d)	Indicate that the facility for which telemetry is being requested is not owned or covered by an agreement that allows the requested party to install the additional telemetry.
(6) 	If ERCOT rejects an alternative solution proposed pursuant to paragraph (4) or (5) above, the TSP or QSE may appeal the original request to TAC within 30 days of receiving notice of ERCOT’s rejection.  If, after receiving an appeal, TAC does not resolve the appeal within 65 days, the TSP or QSE may present its appeal to the ERCOT Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a TSP or QSE is not required to provide telemetry measurements from a location not owned by that TSP or QSE if the location owner does not grant access to the TSP or QSE for the purpose of obtaining such measurements.  ERCOT shall report such cases to the IMM.
3.10.7.6	Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits
(1)	For the sole purpose of creating transmission flow constraints between areas of the ERCOT Transmission Grid in ERCOT applications that are unable to recognize non-thermal operating limits (such as system stability limits and voltage limits on Electrical Buses), ERCOT may create new Generic Transmission Constraints (GTCs) or modify existing GTCs for use in reliability and market analysis.  GTCs created or modified as described in this Section shall be used in the SCED application.  ERCOT shall not use GTCs in ERCOT applications to replace other constraints already capable of being directly modeled in the SCED application. 
(2) 	During the ERCOT quarterly stability assessment, performed pursuant to Planning Guide Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, if ERCOT determines a GTC is necessary for a new Generation Resource and SOTSG due to localized stability issues associated with the output of the interconnecting Generation Resource or SOTSG, the GTL for the GTC shall be set to the lowest non-zero limit for all system conditions outside those in which the limit is zero.
(3)	Except as provided in paragraph (6) below, ERCOT shall post a description of each new or modified GTC to the MIS Secure Area as soon as possible, but no later than the day prior to the GTC or GTC modification becoming effective in any ERCOT application.  Posting of each new or modified GTC shall include:
(a) 	The description of the new or modified GTC including the GTL or description of the data and studies used to calculate the GTL associated with each new or modified GTC;
(b)	The effective date of the new or modified GTC;
(c)	The identity of all constrained Transmission Elements that make up the GTC, including the defined interface where applicable; and
(d)	Detailed information on the development of each GTC, including the defined constraint or interface where applicable; and data and studies used for development of each new or modified GTC, including the GTL associated with each new or modified GTC.  This information shall be redacted or omitted to protect the confidentiality of certain stability-related GTCs.
(4)	Market Participants may review and comment on each new or modified GTC.  Within seven days following receipt of any comments, ERCOT shall post the comments to the MIS Secure Area as part of the information related to the subject GTC.  ERCOT shall review any comments and may modify any part of a given GTC in response to any comments received.
(5)	Anticipated GTLs, except those determined pursuant to paragraph (6) below, shall be posted to the MIS Secure Area no later than one day before the Operating Day. 
(6)	If an unexpected change to ERCOT System conditions requires the creation of a new GTC or the modification of an existing GTC to manage ERCOT System reliability, and the GTC has not been posted pursuant to paragraph (3) above, ERCOT shall issue an Operating Condition Notice (OCN) and post on the MIS Secure Area the new or modified GTC and its associated GTL(s), including the detailed information described in paragraphs (3) and (5) above.  ERCOT shall include an explanation regarding why it did not post the GTC or modification on the previous day.
(7)	No later than 180 days after the effective date of a new GTC, ERCOT shall post a report listing alternatives for exiting the GTC to the MIS Secure Area.  The listed alternatives may include but are not limited to the implementation or modification of a RAS or a transmission improvement project.
3.10.7.7	DC Tie Limits
(1) 	ERCOT shall post DC Tie limits for each hour of the Operating Day to the MIS Secure Area no later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead before the Operating Day.  ERCOT may update these limits as system conditions change. 
(2)	DC Tie limits shall be based on expected system conditions, including Outages, for each hour of the Operating Day and shall be calculated as the lower of the physical capacity of the DC Tie, the amount of DC Tie import and export that could flow without resulting in transmission security violations that would not be resolved by SCED, or, for the DC Ties with Mexico, any limits supplied by the Mexican system operator.  In setting these limits for a given hour, ERCOT shall assume that any Generation Resource shown to be available in its COP will be self-committed or committed at the appropriate time through the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process to resolve any transmission constraints resulting from DC Tie Schedules.  DC Tie Schedules are subject to the actual availability of that generation at the time the Generation Resource is needed, as well as other system conditions.
[NPRR825:  Replace Section 3.10.7.7 above with the following upon system implementation:]
3.10.7.7	DC Tie Advisory Limits
(1) 	Every hour, ERCOT shall post DC Tie advisory limits for each hour of the next 48 hours to the MIS Secure Area.  ERCOT may update these limits as system conditions change.  Any updated DC Tie advisory limits shall be posted to the MIS Secure Area as soon as practicable.
(2)	DC Tie advisory limits shall be based on expected, or actual system conditions, including Outages, for each hour of the Operating Day and shall be calculated as the lower of the available physical capacity of the DC Tie, the amount of DC Tie import and export that could flow without resulting in transmission security violations that would not be resolved by SCED, or, for the DC Ties with Mexico, any limits supplied by the Mexican system operator.  In setting these limits for a given hour, ERCOT shall assume that any Generation Resource shown to be available in its COP for a given hour will be self-committed or committed at the appropriate time through the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process to resolve any transmission security violations resulting from DC Tie Schedules.  DC Tie Schedules are subject to the actual availability of that generation at the time the Generation Resource is needed, as well as other system conditions.