3.9	Current Operating Plan (COP) 
(1)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents a Resource must submit a Current Operating Plan (COP) under this Section. 
(2)	ERCOT shall use the information provided in the COP to calculate the High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and Low Ancillary Service Limit (LASL) for each Resource for the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) processes. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the information provided in the COP to calculate operating limits and Ancillary Service capabilities for each Resource for the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) processes.
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor the accuracy of each QSE’s COP as outlined in Section 8, Performance Monitoring.  
(4)	A QSE must notify ERCOT that it plans to have a Resource On-Line by means of the COP using the Resource Status codes listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.  The QSE must show the Resource as On-Line with a Resource Status of ONRUC, indicating a RUC process committed the Resource for all RUC-Committed Intervals.  A QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval to meet the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service.
(5)	To reflect changes to a Resource’s capability, each QSE shall report by exception, changes to the COP for all hours after the Operating Period through the rest of the Operating Day.  
(6)	When a QSE updates its COP to show changes in Resource Status, the QSE shall update for each On-Line Resource, either an Energy Offer Curve under Section 4.4.9, Energy Offers and Bids, or Output Schedule under Section 6.4.2, Output Schedules.  
(7)	Each QSE, including QSEs representing Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, Firm Fuel Supply Service Resources (FFSSRs), or Black Start Resources, shall submit a revised COP reflecting changes in Resource availability as soon as reasonably practicable, but in no event later than 60 minutes after the event that caused the change.
(8)	Each QSE representing a Qualifying Facility (QF) must submit a Low Sustained Limit (LSL) that represents the minimum energy available, in MW, from the unit for economic dispatch based on the minimum stable steam delivery to the thermal host plus a justifiable reliability margin that accounts for changes in ambient conditions. 
(9)	When ERCOT issues a communication in the form of an Operating Condition Notice (OCN), Advisory, Watch, or Emergency Notice due to forecasted or actual cold or hot weather, for each Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) a QSE represents, the QSE shall update the COP, Real-Time telemetry, and Outage or derate reporting to reflect any Resource-specific operating limitations based on: (i) capability and availability; (ii) fuel supply or inventory concerns, including fuel switching capabilities; or (iii) environmental constraints and the impact on the Generation Resource or ESR due to the weather conditions.  QSEs shall provide these updates in accordance with Sections 3.1.4, Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facility Outages; 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements; 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP); 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria; and Nodal Operating Guide Section 7.3, Telemetry.