3.13	Renewable Production Potential Forecasts
(1)	ERCOT shall produce forecasts of Renewable Production Potential (RPP) for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) and PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) to be used as an input into the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hour-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC).  ERCOT shall produce the forecasts using information provided by WGR/PVGR Entities, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  WGR and PVGR Entities shall install telemetry at their respective Resources and transmit the ERCOT-specified site-specific meteorological information to ERCOT.  WGR and PVGR Entities shall also provide detailed equipment status at the WGR/PVGR facility as specified by ERCOT to support the RPP forecast.  ERCOT shall post forecasts for each WGR and PVGR to the Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing WGRs and/or PVGRs on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  QSEs shall use the ERCOT-provided forecasts for WGRs/PVGRs throughout the Day-Ahead and Operating Day for applicable markets and Reliability Unit Commitments (RUCs).  Similar requirements for run-of-the-river hydro must be developed as needed. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce forecasts of Renewable Production Potential (RPP) for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs), PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs), and the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource to be used as an input into the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hour-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC).  ERCOT shall produce the forecasts using information provided by WGRs, PVGRs, and DC-Coupled Resources; meteorological information; and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  A Resource Entity with a WGR, PVGR, or DC-Coupled Resource shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the RPP forecast, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall post forecasts for each WGR and PVGR and for the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource to the MIS Certified Area for the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing that WGR, PVGR, or DC-Coupled Resource.  QSEs shall use the ERCOT-provided forecasts for WGRs, PVGRs, and DC-Coupled Resources in the Day-Ahead and throughout the Operating Day for applicable markets and Reliability Unit Commitments (RUCs).  Similar requirements for run-of-the-river hydro must be developed as needed.
(2)	ERCOT shall develop cost-effective tools or services to forecast energy production from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) with technical assistance from QSEs scheduling IRRs.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to develop accurate and unbiased forecasts, as limited by the availability of relevant explanatory data.  ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area objective criteria and thresholds for unbiased, accurate forecasts within five Business Days of change.
[NPRR1029 and NPRR1183:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall develop cost-effective tools or services to forecast energy production from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) and from the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource with technical assistance from QSEs representing such Resources.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to develop accurate and unbiased forecasts, as limited by the availability of relevant explanatory data.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website objective criteria and thresholds for unbiased, accurate forecasts within five Business Days of change.