3.18	Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service 
(1)	For both Generation Resources and Load Resources the High Sustained Limit (HSL) must be greater than or equal to the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and the sum of the Resource-specific designation of capacity to provide Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	For both Generation Resources and Load Resources the High Sustained Limit (HSL) must be greater than or equal to the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and the sum of the Resource-specific awards for Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).
(2)	For Non-Spin, the amount of Non-Spin provided must be less than or equal to the HSL for Off-Line Generation Resources.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	For Non-Spin, the amount of Non-Spin awarded must be less than or equal to the HSL for Off-Line Generation Resources.
(3)	For RRS:
(a)	The full amount of RRS awarded to or self-arranged from an On-Line Generation Resource is dependent upon the verified droop characteristics of the Resource.  ERCOT shall calculate and update, using the methodology described in the Nodal Operating Guide, a maximum MW amount of RRS for each Generation Resource subject to verified droop performance.  The default value for any newly qualified Generation Resource shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide;  
(b)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may provide RRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz.  Once deployed, a Resource telemetering a Resource Status of ONRR shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule of zero, and when recalled by ERCOT after frequency recovers above 59.98 Hz, such Resource shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule that shall be a non-zero value equal to its RRS Ancillary Service Responsibility; 
(c)	The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting for Load Resources providing RRS shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz; and
(d)	The amount of RRS provided from a Resource capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) must be less than or equal to its 15-minute rated capacity.  The initiation setting of the automatic self-deployment of the Resource providing RRS as FFR must be no lower than 59.85 Hz.  A Resource providing RRS as FFR that is deployed shall not recall its capacity until system frequency is greater than 59.98 Hz.  Once deployed, a Resource telemetering a Resource Status of ONFFRRRS or ONFFRRRSL shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule of zero, and when recalled, such Resource shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule that shall be a non-zero value equal to its RRS Ancillary Service Responsibility.  Once recalled, a Resource providing RRS as FFR must restore its full RRS Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within 15 minutes after cessation of deployment or as otherwise directed by ERCOT. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	For RRS:
(a)	The full amount of RRS that can be provided by an On-Line Generation Resource is dependent upon the verified droop characteristics of the Resource.  ERCOT shall calculate and update, using the methodology described in the Nodal Operating Guide, a maximum MW amount of RRS for each Generation Resource subject to verified droop performance.  The default value for any newly qualified Generation Resource shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide;  
(b)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may be awarded RRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; 
(c)	The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting for Load Resources providing RRS shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz; and
(d)	The amount of RRS awarded to a Resource capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) must be less than or equal to its 15-minute rated capacity.  The initiation setting of the automatic self-deployment of the Resource providing RRS as FFR must be no lower than 59.85 Hz.
(4)	For ECRS:
(a)	The full amount of ECRS provided from an On-Line Generation Resource must be less than or equal to ten times the Emergency Ramp Rate;
(b)	The full amount of ECRS provided by a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) must be less than or equal to its proven ten-minute capability as demonstrated pursuant to paragraph (16) of Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements; 
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may provide ECRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; and 
(d)	For any Load Resources controlled by under-frequency relay and providing ECRS, the initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz.  To provide ECRS, Load Resources are not required to be controlled by under-frequency relays.
[NPRR1007:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	For ECRS:
(a)	The full amount of ECRS that can be awarded to an On-Line Generation Resource must be less than or equal to ten times the Emergency Ramp Rate;
(b)	The full amount of ECRS that can be awarded to a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) must be less than or equal to its proven ten-minute capability as demonstrated pursuant to paragraph (16) of Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements; 
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may be awarded ECRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; and 
(d)	For any Load Resources controlled by under-frequency relay and awarded ECRS, the initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz.  To provide ECRS, Load Resources are not required to be controlled by under-frequency relays.