3.21	Submission of Declarations of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination
(1)	As part of its submission to ERCOT in connection with subsection (c)(3)(B) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55, Weather Emergency Preparedness, each Resource Entity representing one or more Generation Resources subject to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55 that uses natural gas as its primary fuel shall submit to ERCOT the declaration in Section 22, Attachment K, Declaration of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination, stating that the Resource Entity or its Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) made a documented effort to communicate with the operator of each natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource to coordinate regarding potential impacts to the Generation Resource’s availability during the summer Peak Load Season of that year.
(2)	If a Resource Entity or its QSE knows an activity or condition related to a natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource will cause the Generation Resource’s unavailability, in whole or in part, the QSE shall, as soon as practicable, report that Outage or derate in the ERCOT Outage Scheduler in accordance with Section 3.1, Outage Coordination.  An Outage or derate reported in the ERCOT Outage Scheduler need not be disclosed in the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, nor reported under paragraph (4) below. 
(3)	If, before a Resource Entity submits the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, the Resource Entity or its QSE is notified by an operator of a natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource of an activity or condition (e.g. maintenance, inspection, malfunction, or third-party damage) that may limit or impede normal deliveries but is uncertain whether the activity or condition during the upcoming summer Peak Load Season will cause the Generation Resource to take an Outage or derate, the Resource Entity shall disclose the natural gas pipeline activity or condition in the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, if the activity or condition materially increases the risk of Generation Resource unavailability during the summer Peak Load Season.  The Resource Entity shall use its reasonable judgment to determine whether there is a material increase in the risk of unavailability.
(4)	If, after submitting the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, any previously disclosed information changes or a Resource Entity or its QSE receives new information about an activity or condition that may limit or impede normal natural gas deliveries and materially increases the risk of Generation Resource unavailability during the summer Peak Load Season, the Resource Entity shall disclose that information to ERCOT as soon as practicable.  The Resource Entity shall use reasonable judgment to determine the risk of unavailability.  When notifying ERCOT as required under this paragraph, the Resource Entity shall update the information required by paragraphs (3)(a)-(e) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination section of Section 22, Attachment K, for the affected Generation Resource by sending an email to the email address designated by ERCOT.  
(5)	In complying with its obligations in this Section 3.21, a Resource Entity or its QSE relies upon communications with and information received from operators of natural gas pipelines directly connected to the Resource Entity’s Generation Resource.  The Resource Entity or its QSE shall act in good faith to request the required information and, as soon as practicable, share with each other any information received from a natural gas pipeline operator required to be disclosed to ERCOT under Section 3.21.  The Resource Entity or its QSE need not warrant the accuracy or completeness of information received from the natural gas pipeline operator and subsequently disclosed to ERCOT.