9.7	Payment Process for the Settlement Invoices
(1)	Payments for the Settlement Invoices are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a two-day, two-step process as detailed below.
9.7.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the Settlement Invoices
(1)	The payment due date and time for the Settlement Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the second Bank Business Day after the Settlement Invoice date, unless the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the second Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All Settlement Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date. 
9.7.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for the Settlement Invoices
(1)	Subject to the availability of funds as discussed in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT must pay Settlement Invoices with funds owed to an Invoice Recipient by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after payments are due for that Settlement Invoice under Section 9.7.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the Settlement Invoices, subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments for any reason set forth in these Protocols or as a matter of law, unless that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due on the next Bank Business Day thereafter that is also a Business Day. 
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit to each Invoice Recipient for same day value the amounts determined by ERCOT to be available for payment to that Invoice Recipient under paragraph (d) of Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients. 
9.7.3	Enforcing the Financial Security of a Short-Paying Invoice Recipient
(1)	ERCOT shall make reasonable efforts to enforce the Financial Security of the short-paying Invoice Recipient (pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants) to the extent necessary to cover the short-pay.  A short-paying Invoice Recipient shall restore the level of its Financial Security under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.
(2)	ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short payments and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the Invoice.