9.12	CRR Balancing Account Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Invoices for the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Balancing Account (CRRBA) on a monthly basis on the first Business Day following the Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Settlement posting of the last day of the month on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.
(2)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of monthly the CRRBA by posting additional Settlement Invoices on the first Business Day following the RTM Final Settlement posting of the last day of the month on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.  A trued up CRRBA Invoice will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous CRRBA Invoice for a given month.
(3)	ERCOT shall prepare resettlement Invoices in the event that the balance in the CRRBA for the month changes due to a Day-Ahead Market (DAM) resettlement after the initial balancing account Invoices for that month have been posted as specified in the Settlement Calendar.  The Monthly Load Ratio Share (MLRS) as described in Section 7.9.3.5, CRR Balancing Account Closure, used for the resettlement CRRBA Invoice will be the same one used for the most recently posted balancing account Invoices.  A resettlement CRRBA Invoice will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous CRRBA Invoice for a given month.
(4)	For each Invoice cycle, the Market Participant to whom the CRRBA Invoice is addressed (“Invoice Recipient”) is a payee.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the CRRBA Invoice on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area once posted by ERCOT.
(5)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for each Invoice Recipient a CRRBA Invoice based on the calculations located in Sections 7.9.3.4, Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners, and 7.9.3.5.
(6)	CRRBA Invoices must contain the following information: 
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT); 
(c)	Net Amount Payable – the aggregate summary of all amounts owed to the Invoice Recipient summarized by month;
(d)	Time Period – the time period covered for each line item;
(e)	Run Date – the date on which the ERCOT created and published Invoice;
(f)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes; and
(g)	Payment Date – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be received.
(7)	Each Invoice Recipient shall receive any credit shown on the CRRBA Invoice on the payment due date.  Credit shown on the CRRBA Invoice will be paid on due date whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the payment.