3.15.1	ERCOT Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the TSPs, shall establish, and update as necessary, a Voltage Profile at the POIB for each Generation Resource and ESR required to provide VSS to maintain system voltages within established limits.
(2)	ERCOT shall communicate to the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and TSPs the desired voltage at the POIB by providing Voltage Profiles.
(3)	ERCOT, in coordination with TSPs, shall deploy static Reactive Power Resources as required to continuously maintain dynamic reactive reserves from QSEs, both leading and lagging, adequate to meet ERCOT System requirements. 
[NPRR1098:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	ERCOT, in coordination with TSPs, shall deploy static Reactive Power Resources as required to continuously maintain dynamic reactive reserves from QSEs and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), both leading and lagging, adequate to meet ERCOT System requirements.
(4)	For any Market Participant’s failure to meet the Reactive Power voltage control requirements of these Protocols, ERCOT shall notify the Market Participant in writing of such failure and, upon a request from the Market Participant, explain whether and why the failure must be corrected.
(5)	ERCOT shall notify all affected TSPs of any alternative requirements it approves.
(6)	Annually, ERCOT shall review Distribution Service Provider (DSP) power factors using the actual summer Load and power factor information included in the annual Load data request to assess whether DSPs comply with the requirements of this subsection.  At times selected by ERCOT, ERCOT shall require manual power factor measurement at substations and points of interconnection for Load that do not have power factor metering.  ERCOT shall try to provide DSPs sufficient notice to perform the manual measurements.  ERCOT may not request more than four measurements per calendar year for each DSP substation or points of interconnection for Load where power factor measurements are not available.
(7)	If actual conditions indicate probable non-compliance of TSPs and DSPs with the requirements to provide voltage support, ERCOT shall require power factor measurements at the time of its choice while providing sufficient notice to perform the measurements.
(8)	ERCOT shall investigate claims of TSP and DSP alleged non-compliance with Voltage Support requirements. The ERCOT investigator shall advise ERCOT and TSP planning and operating staffs of the results of such investigations.