4.4.4	DC Tie Schedules
(1)	All schedules between the ERCOT Control Area and a non-ERCOT Control Area(s) over Direct Current Tie(s) (DC Ties(s)), must be implemented under these Protocols, any applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards, and operating agreements between ERCOT and the Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE).  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	All Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules between the ERCOT Control Area and a non-ERCOT Control Area(s) must be implemented in accordance with these Protocols, any applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards, and operating agreements between ERCOT and the appropriate operating authority for the non-ERCOT Control Area.
(2)	A DC Tie Schedule for hours in the Operating Day corresponding to an Electronic Tag (e-Tag) that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates a capacity supply for the equivalent Resource or an obligation for the equivalent Load of the DC Tie in the DRUC process.  DC Tie Schedules corresponding to e-Tags approved after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day create a capacity supply or obligation in any applicable HRUC processes.  DC Tie Schedules corresponding to e-Tags approved after the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period snapshot in accordance with the market timeline.
(3)	A QSE that is an importer into ERCOT through a DC Tie in a Settlement Interval under an approved e-Tag must be treated as a Resource at that DC Tie Settlement Point for that Settlement Interval. 
(4)	A QSE that is an exporter from ERCOT through a DC Tie in a Settlement Interval under an approved e-Tag must be treated as a Load at the DC Tie Settlement Point for that Settlement Interval and is responsible for allocated Transmission Losses, Unaccounted for Energy (UFE), System Administration Fee, and any other applicable ERCOT fees.
(5)	ERCOT shall approve any e-Tag that does not exceed the available physical capacity of the DC Tie and any limits supplied the non-ERCOT Control Area for the time period for which the e-Tag is requested unless a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect for the particular DC Tie for which the e-Tag request is made.  While a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect, ERCOT will deny any additional e-Tag requests that would exacerbate the transmission security violations that led to that DC Tie Curtailment Notice.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT shall deny or curtail any e-Tag over any of the DC Ties if necessary to avoid causing any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, to become such a public utility.  If ERCOT determines that it is necessary to deny or curtail e-Tags in order to prevent any Entity from becoming a “public utility,” it shall provide notice of that determination by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.
[NPRR999:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon project implementation of the Intra-Hour Variability (iCAT) Tool:]
(5)	ERCOT shall approve any e-Tag that does not exceed the available physical capacity of the DC Tie, system ramping capability, and any limits supplied by the non-ERCOT Control Area for the time period for which the e-Tag is requested unless a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect for the particular DC Tie for which the e-Tag request is made; otherwise, ERCOT shall deny the e-Tag.  While a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect, ERCOT will deny any additional e-Tag requests that would exacerbate the transmission security violations that led to that DC Tie Curtailment Notice.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT shall deny or curtail any e-Tag over any of the DC Ties if necessary to avoid causing any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, to become such a public utility.  If ERCOT determines that it is necessary to deny or curtail e-Tags in order to prevent any Entity from becoming a “public utility,” it shall provide notice of that determination by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.
(6)	ERCOT shall perform schedule confirmation with the applicable non-ERCOT Control Area(s) and shall coordinate the approval process for the e-Tags for the ERCOT Control Area.  An e-Tag for a schedule across a DC Tie is considered approved if:
(a)	All Control Areas and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) with approval rights approve the e-Tag (active approval); or
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(a)	All Control Areas and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs) with approval rights approve the e-Tag (active approval); or
(b)	No Entity with approval rights over the e-Tag has denied it, and the approval time window has ended (passive approval).
(7)	Using the DC Tie Schedule information corresponding to e-Tags submitted by QSEs, ERCOT shall update and maintain a Current Operating Plan (COP) for each DC Tie for which the aggregated DC Tie Schedules for that tie show a net export out of ERCOT for the applicable interval.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie indicates an export, ERCOT shall treat the DC Tie as an Off-Line Resource and set the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for that DC Tie Resource to zero.  ERCOT shall monitor the associated Resource Status telemetry during the Operating Period.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie shows a net import, the Resource HSL, High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and LSL must be set appropriately, considering the resulting net import. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	Using the DC Tie Schedule information corresponding to e-Tags submitted by QSEs, ERCOT shall update and maintain a Current Operating Plan (COP) for each DC Tie for which the aggregated DC Tie Schedules for that tie show a net export out of ERCOT for the applicable interval.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie indicates an export, ERCOT shall treat the DC Tie as an Off-Line Resource and set the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for that DC Tie Resource to zero.  ERCOT shall monitor the associated Resource Status telemetry during the Operating Period.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie shows a net import, the Resource HSL and LSL must be set appropriately, considering the resulting net import.
(8)	A QSE exporting from ERCOT and/or importing to ERCOT through a DC Tie shall:
(a)	Secure and maintain an e-Tag service to submit e-Tags and monitor e-Tag status according to NERC requirements;
(b)	Submit e-Tags for all proposed transactions; and
(c)	Implement backup procedures in case of e-Tag service failure.  
(9)	ERCOT shall post a notice to the MIS Certified Area when a confirmed e-Tag is downloaded, cancelled, or curtailed by ERCOT’s systems.
(10)	ERCOT shall use the DC Tie e-Tag MW amounts for Settlement.  The DC Tie operator shall communicate deratings of the DC Ties to ERCOT and other affected regions and all parties shall agree to any adjusted or curtailed e-Tag amounts. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(10)	ERCOT shall use the DC Tie e-Tag MW amounts for Settlement.  The DCTO shall communicate deratings of the DC Ties to ERCOT and other affected regions and all parties shall agree to any adjusted or curtailed e-Tag amounts. 
(11)	DC Tie Load is considered as Load for daily and hourly reliability studies, and settled as Adjusted Metered Load (AML).  DC Tie Load is curtailed prior to other Load on the ERCOT System as described below, and during Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) events as set forth in Section 6.5.9.4.2, EEA Levels.  
(12)	DC Tie Load shall neither be curtailed by ERCOT during the Adjustment Period, nor for more than one hour at a time, except for the purpose of maintaining reliability, or as indicated in paragraphs (13), (14), (15), and (16) below. 
(13)	If a system operator in a non-ERCOT Control Area requests curtailment of a DC Tie Schedule due to an actual or anticipated emergency in its Control Area, ERCOT may curtail the DC Tie Schedule.  If the DC Tie Schedule is curtailed, ERCOT shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.
(14)	If a DC Tie experiences an Outage, ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules that are, or that are expected to be, affected by the Outage based on system conditions and expected restoration time of the Outage.  ERCOT shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.  Updated DC Tie limits shall be posted as required in paragraph (1) of Section 3.10.7.7, DC Tie Limits.
(15)	If market-based congestion management techniques embedded in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) as specified in these Protocols will not be adequate to resolve one or more transmission security violations that would be fully or partially resolved by the curtailment of DC Tie Load and, in ERCOT’s judgment, no approved Constraint Management Plan (CMP) is adequate to resolve those violations, ERCOT may instruct Resources to change output and, if still necessary, curtail DC Tie Load to maintain reliability and shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.  The quantity of DC Tie Load to be curtailed shall be the minimum required to resolve the constraint(s) after the other remediation actions described above have been taken.
(16)	ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules as necessary to ensure that any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the FPA, including ERCOT, does not become such a public utility.
[NPRR1034:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities; and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules on a DC Tie on a last-in-first-out basis when ERCOT determines that one or more DC Tie Schedules on that DC Tie would exceed a limit established pursuant to paragraph (1) of Section 4.4.4.4, Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports.
(17)	Market Participants shall not engage in DC Tie export transactions that are reasonably expected to be uneconomic in consideration of all costs and revenues associated with the transaction, excluding Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) and CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA) allocations.
[NPRR1030:  Delete paragraph (17) above upon system implementation.]
4.4.4.1	DC Tie Schedule Criteria
(1)	Each DC Tie Schedule must correspond to an implemented e-Tag and include the following information: 
(a)	The QSE ERCOT identifier or non-ERCOT Control Area buying the energy;
(b)	The QSE ERCOT identifier or non-ERCOT Control Area selling the energy;
(c)	The DC Tie Settlement Point name;
(d)	The quantity in MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the schedule; 
(e)	The first and last 15-minute Settlement Intervals of the schedule; and
(f)	The e-Tag name.
[NPRR999:  Insert Section 4.4.4.2 below upon project implementation of the Intra-Hour Variability (iCAT) Tool:]
4.4.4.2	Management of DC Tie Schedules due to Ramp Limitations
(1)	If system conditions near or in Real-Time show insufficient ramp capability to meet the sum of all DC Ties’ scheduled ramp, taking into account the full ramping capability of all available Resources and preserving sufficient Physical Responsive Capability (PRC) to avoid EEA Level 1, and ERCOT determines that sufficient time exists, ERCOT may request that one or more e-Tags be resubmitted with an adjusted ramp duration that would conform with the system’s ramp capability.  If ERCOT determines that insufficient time exists to request resubmission of e-Tags, or that an insufficient number of e-Tags have been resubmitted to conform with the system’s ramp capability, ERCOT shall curtail DC Tie Schedules on a last-in-first-out basis as necessary to conform with the system’s ramp capability and shall deny any additional e-Tags that cannot be accommodated within that ramp capability during the impacted intervals.
[NPRR1034:  Insert Section 4.4.4.3 below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
4.4.4.3	Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports  
(1)  	ERCOT may establish import or export limits applicable to any DC Tie to mitigate the risk of significant frequency deviation due to the unexpected loss of that DC Tie.  ERCOT shall identify the operating conditions and limits it would expect to use in a posting to the ERCOT website.