9.2.5	DAM Resettlement Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue DAM Resettlement Statements for a given Operating Day if the ERCOT Board finds that the DAM Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs), Market Clearing Prices for Capacity (MCPCs), or Settlement Point Prices are significantly affected by a software or other error under Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results.  ERCOT shall also produce DAM Resettlement Statements required by resolution of Settlement and billing disputes and the correction of errors other than price errors pursuant to this Section.  In addition, the ERCOT Board may, in its discretion, direct ERCOT to run a resettlement of any Operating Day, at any time, to address unusual circumstances.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue a DAM Resettlement Statement for a given Operating Day due to errors other than errors in prices when:
(a)	The total of all errors other than price errors results in an absolute value impact greater than 2% of the total DAM Statement amount for any single Statement Recipient for the Operating Day;
(b)	The impact to the Statement Recipient is greater than $200.00; and
(c)	The error is discovered, and a Market Notice of the error is provided to Market Participants, within one year of the Operating Day at issue.
(3)	ERCOT shall issue a DAM Resettlement Statement for an Operating Day if an error in the DAM Settlement, which does not otherwise meet the Protocol requirements for resettlement as specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) above, will prevent ERCOT from achieving revenue neutrality.
(4) 	No later than 150 days after each affected Operating Day, ERCOT shall resettle Operating Days with errors, other than errors in prices, with cumulative impacts that do not meet the threshold described in paragraph (2) above if the cumulative effect of errors to a single Statement Recipient in the 150 day window results in an absolute value impact greater than 1% of the total DAM Statement amounts for any Statement Recipient for the affected Operating Days, if this impact to the Statement Recipient is greater than $5,000.00.
(5)	A DAM Resettlement Statement must reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement Statement for the given DAM.
(6)	ERCOT may issue DAM Resettlement Statements after the timeline referenced in paragraph (2) above if directed by the ERCOT Board, the result of a resolution of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure, or under the procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  
(7)	If ERCOT is required to issue a Resettlement Statement per this Section, but resettlement is not practicable due to system limitations, ERCOT shall make the adjustments through a separate Invoice that is produced outside of normal Settlement Invoices.  The appropriate payments and charges, along with Settlement-quality information, shall be supplied to all impacted Market Participants.