5.5.1	Security Sequence
(1)	The figure below highlights the key computational modules and processes that are used in the Security Sequence:
(2)	The Security Sequence uses computational modules functionally similar to those used in Real-Time Sequence, however, the inputs into the Security Sequence are based on a snapshot of projected hourly system conditions and constraints rather than Real-Time data.   
(3)	The Security Sequence uses the status of all transmission breakers and switches (current status for the first hour and normal status for all other hours of Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) and normal status for all hours of Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC)), updated for approved Planned Outages for equipment out of service and returned to service for building a representation of the ERCOT Transmission Grid for each hour of the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Period.  The Network Topology Processor constructs a network model for each hour that must be used by the Bus Load Forecast to estimate the hourly Load for each transmission bus.    
(4)	The weather forecast obtained by ERCOT must be provided to the Dynamic Rating Processor to create weather-adjusted MVA limits for each hour of the RUC Study Period for all transmission lines and transformers that have Dynamic Ratings.
(5)	ERCOT shall analyze base configuration, select n-1 contingencies and select n-2 contingencies under the Operating Guides.  The Operating Guides must also specify the criteria by which ERCOT may remove contingencies from the list.  ERCOT shall post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the standard contingency list, including identification of changes from previous versions before being used in the Security Sequence.  ERCOT shall evaluate the need for Resource-specific deployments during Real-Time operations for management of congestion consistent with the Operating Guides.
(6)	ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Secure Area any contingencies temporarily removed from the standard contingency list by ERCOT immediately after successful execution of the Security Sequence.  ERCOT shall include the reason for removal of any contingency as soon as practicable but not later than one hour after removal. 
(7)	As part of the Network Security Analysis (NSA), for each hour of the RUC Study Period, ERCOT shall analyze all selected contingencies and perform the following:
(a)	Perform full AC analysis of all contingencies;
(b)	Monitor element and bus voltage limit violations; and
(c)	Monitor transmission line and transformer security violations. 
(8)	As part of the NSA, if there is an approved Remedial Action Plan (RAP) available, it must be used before considering a Resource commitment.
(9)	ERCOT shall review all security violations prior to RUC execution.  
(10)	All Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model shall be included in the contingency analysis.  The computational modules must enable ERCOT to analyze contingencies, including the effects of all RASs and AMPs included in the Network Operations Model. 
(11)	ERCOT may deselect certain contingencies known to cause errors or that otherwise result in inconclusive study output in the RUC.  On continued de-selection of contingencies, ERCOT shall prepare an analysis to determine the cause of the error.  ERCOT may use information from the Day-Ahead processes as decision support during the Hour-Ahead processes.  ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area any contingencies deselected by ERCOT and must include the reason for removal as soon as practicable, but not later than one hour after deselection.