5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process
(1)	The RUC process recommends commitment of Generation Resources, to match ERCOT’s forecasted Load including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, subject to all transmission constraints and Resource performance characteristics.  The RUC process takes into account Resources already committed in the Current Operating Plans (COPs), Resources already committed in previous RUCs, Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, and Resource capacity already committed to provide Ancillary Service.  The formulation of the RUC objective function must employ penalty factors on violations of security constraints.  The objective of the RUC process is to minimize costs based on the Resource costs described in paragraphs (5) through (9) below.  For all hours of the RUC Study Period within the RUC process, Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) with a COP Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as On-Line with Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at zero MW.  QSGRs with a Resource Status of OFFQS shall only be committed by ERCOT through a RUC instruction in instances when a reliability issue would not otherwise be managed through Dispatch Instructions from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  For On-Line ESRs, the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) values provided in the COP for a given hour are discounted to ensure sufficient SOC is preserved to meet Ancillary Service Resource Responsibilities, as reflected in the COP.  Any remaining SOC on the ESR will be considered available for energy dispatch by RUC while respecting the Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC) and Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC) values provided in the COP.
(2)	The RUC process can recommend Resource decommitment.  ERCOT may only decommit a Resource to resolve transmission constraints that are otherwise unresolvable. Qualifying Facilities (QFs) may be decommitted only after all other types of Resources have been assessed for decommitment.  In addition, the HRUC process provides decision support to ERCOT regarding a Resource decommitment requested by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(3)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the MIS Secure Area.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the MIS Secure Area any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
(4)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT Operator of any physical limitation that impacts its Resource’s ability to start that is not reflected in the Resource’s COP or the Resource’s startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.  The following shall apply:
(a)	If a Resource receives a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it cannot meet due to a physical limitation described in paragraph (4) above, the QSE representing the Resource shall notify the ERCOT Operator of the inability to fully comply with the instruction and shall comply with the instruction to the best of the Resource’s ability.  If the QSE has provided the ERCOT Operator notice of that limitation at least seven days prior to the Operating Day in which the instruction occurs, the QSE shall be excused from complying with the portion of the RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to the identified limitation.  
(b)	If a QSE provides notice pursuant to paragraph (a) above of a physical limitation that will delay the RUC-committed Resource’s ability to reach its LSL in accordance with a RUC Dispatch Instruction, ERCOT shall extend the RUC Dispatch Instruction so that the Resource’s minimum run time is respected. However, if the Resource will not be available in time to address the issue for which it received the RUC instruction, ERCOT may instead cancel the RUC Dispatch Instruction.
(5)	A QSE shall be excused from complying with any portion of a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to a physical limitation that was reflected, at the time of the RUC Dispatch Instruction, in the Resource’s COP, startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.
(6)	To determine the projected energy output level of each Resource and to project potential congestion patterns for each hour of the RUC, ERCOT shall calculate proxy Energy Offer Curves based on the Mitigated Offer Caps (MOCs) for the type of Resource as specified in Section 4.4.9.4, Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor, for use in the RUC.  Proxy Energy Offer Curves are calculated by multiplying the MOC by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.10% and applying the cost for all Generation Resource output between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and LSL.  The intent of this process is to minimize the effect of the proxy Energy Offer Curves on optimization.
(7)	ERCOT shall use the RUC process to evaluate the need to commit Resources for which a QSE has submitted Three-Part Supply Offers and other available Off-Line Resources in addition to Resources that are planned to be On-Line during the RUC Study Period.  All of the above commitment information must be as specified in the QSE’s COP.  For available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (9) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements, the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offer from a Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer shall not be used in the RUC process. 
(8)	ERCOT shall create Three-Part Supply Offers for all Resources that did not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer, but are specified as available but Off-Line, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of EMR, in a QSE’s COP.  For such Resources, excluding available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (9) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall use in the RUC process 100% of any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as described specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, registered with ERCOT.  Also, for Settlement purposes, ERCOT shall use any approved verifiable Startup Costs and verifiable minimum-energy cost for such Resources, or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost.
(9)	For all available Off-Line Resources having a cold start time of one hour or less and not removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall scale any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3 for use in the RUC process.  
The above parameter is defined as follows:
Parameter
Unit
Current Value*
1HRLESSCOSTSCALING
Percentage
Maximum value of 100%
*  The current value for the parameter(s) referenced in this table above will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter value(s) on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(10)	The RUC process must treat all Resource capacity providing Ancillary Service as unavailable for the RUC Study Period, unless that treatment leads to infeasibility (i.e., that capacity is needed to resolve some local transmission problem that cannot be resolved by any other means).  If an ERCOT Operator decides that the Ancillary Service capacity allocated to that Resource is infeasible based on ERCOT System conditions, then, ERCOT shall inform each affected QSE of the amount of its Resource capacity that does not qualify to provide Ancillary Service, and the projected hours for which this is the case.  In that event, the affected QSE may, under Section 6.4.9.1.2, Replacement of Infeasible Ancillary Service Due to Transmission Constraints, either:
(a)	Substitute capacity from Resources represented by that QSE;
(b)	Substitute capacity from other QSEs using Ancillary Service Trades; or 
(c)	Ask ERCOT to replace the capacity.   
(11)	Factors included in the RUC process are: 
(a)	ERCOT System-wide hourly Load forecast allocated appropriately over Load buses;
(b)	Transmission constraints – Transfer limits on energy flows through the electricity network;
(i)	Thermal constraints – protect transmission facilities against thermal overload;
(ii)	Generic constraints – protect the transmission system against transient instability, dynamic instability or voltage collapse;
(c)	Planned transmission topology;
(d)	Energy sufficiency constraints;
(e)	Inputs from the COP, as appropriate;
(f)	Inputs from Resource Parameters, including a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, as appropriate;
(g)	Each Generation Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer and Startup Offer, from its Three-Part Supply Offer;
(h)	Any Generation Resource that is Off-Line and available but does not have a Three-Part Supply Offer;
(i)	Forced Outage information; and
(j)	Inputs from the eight-day look ahead planning tool, which may potentially keep a unit On-Line (or start a unit for the next day) so that a unit minimum duration between starts does not limit the availability of the unit (for security reasons).  
(12)	The HRUC process and the DRUC process are as follows:
(a)	The HRUC process uses current Resource Status for the initial condition for the first hour of the RUC Study Period.  All HRUC processes use the projected status of transmission breakers and switches starting with current status and updated for each remaining hour in the study as indicated in the COP for Resources and in the Outage Scheduler for transmission elements. 
(b)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules for each hour in the RUC Study Period.
(c)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead weather forecast for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the weather forecast information for each hour of the balance of the RUC Study Period.
(13)	A QSE that has one or more of its Resources RUC-committed to provide Ancillary Services must increase its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility by the total amount of RUC-committed Ancillary Service quantities.  The QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource to meet its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service, or the Resource is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was RUC-committed to transition from one On-Line configuration to a different configuration with additional capacity.  For cases in which the commitment was to provide Ancillary Service, the QSE shall indicate the exact amount and type of Ancillary Service for which it was committed as the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility and Ancillary Services Schedule for the RUC-Committed Intervals for both telemetry and COP information provided to ERCOT.  Upon deployment of the Ancillary Services, the QSE shall adjust its Ancillary Services Schedule to reflect the amounts requested in the deployment.
(14)	A QSE with a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit or has not received an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) that has been committed in a DRUC or HRUC process may opt out of the RUC Settlement (or “buy back” the commitment) by setting the COP status of the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  All the configurations of the same Combined Cycle Train shall be treated as the same Resource for the purpose of creating the block of RUC-Committed Hours.  A RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource may opt out of the RUC Settlement by setting the COP status of any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the same Combined Cycle Train as the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed from one On-Line configuration in order to transition to a different configuration with additional capacity may opt out of the RUC Settlement following the same rule for RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources described above.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement forfeits RUC Settlement for the affected Resource for a given block of RUC Buy-Back Hours.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement treatment must make the Resource available to SCED for all RUC Buy-Back Hours.  All hours in a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours that includes the RUC Buy-Back Hour shall be considered RUC Buy-Back Hours.  If a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours spans more than one Operating Day and a QSE wishes to opt out of RUC Settlement for the RUC-Committed Hours in the second or subsequent Operating Day, the QSE must set its COP status to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of the first Operating Day in the Opt Out Snapshot of the first Operating Day.
(15)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the MIS Secure Area a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
(16)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be treated as if the telemetered Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, and Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.
(17)	A Resource that has self-committed for an Operating Hour after the RUC Snapshot was taken but before the RUC commitment has been communicated through an XML message for that RUC process and that Operating Hour is included in a block of RUC-committed hours for that RUC process will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Section 6.5.7.3.1, Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC) calculations, and RUC Settlement for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  A QSE that has a Resource that meets these conditions must make the Resource available to SCED for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  ERCOT will send the QSE a notification stating the Operating Day and block of hours for which this occurred.
[NPRR1009, NPRR1032, and NPRR1204:  Replace applicable portions of Section 5.5.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009 and NPRR1204; or upon system implementation for NPRR1032:]
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process
(1)	The RUC process recommends commitment of Generation Resources, to match ERCOT’s forecasted Load including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules and RUC Ancillary Service Demand Curves (ASDCs), subject to all transmission constraints and Resource performance characteristics.  The RUC process takes into account Resources already committed in the Current Operating Plans (COPs), Resources already committed in previous RUCs, and Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less.  For On-Line Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), using RUC duration requirements for energy and Ancillary Services, RUC-projected dispatch for energy and Ancillary Service in one interval shall respect the ESR’s minimum and maximum State of Charge (SOC) values from the COP, while incorporating any adjustments under paragraph (18)(d) below.  In addition, using the Ancillary Service Deployment Factors and their respective deployment duration requirements, the SOC required to support these dispatch levels for energy and Ancillary Services will match as closely as possible the difference between the adjusted COP values of the next interval’s Hour Beginning Planned SOC and the current interval’s Hour Beginning Planned SOC.  The formulation of the RUC objective function must employ penalty factors on violations of security constraints and violations of ESR COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC.  The objective of the RUC process is to minimize costs based on the Resource costs described in paragraphs (10) through (14) below.  ESR energy dispatch costs and Ancillary Service Offer costs are not included in the RUC objective function.
(2)	ERCOT shall create an ASDC for each Ancillary Service for use in RUC.  ERCOT shall post the ASDCs to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable after any change to the ASDCs.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the following Ancillary Service Deployment Factor data on the ERCOT website:
(a)	Following each execution of RUC, ERCOT shall post the Ancillary Service Deployment Factors used by that RUC process for each hour in the RUC Study Period;
(b)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead for each Operating Day, ERCOT shall post the Ancillary Service Deployments Factors that are projected to be used in the RUC process for that Operating Day; and
(c)	Following each month, ERCOT shall post the average, minimum, and maximum Ancillary Service Deployment Factors used in the RUC process by type of Ancillary Service and hour of the day for the month.
(4)	For all hours of the RUC Study Period within the RUC process, Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) with a COP Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as On-Line with Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at zero MW.  QSGRs with a Resource Status of OFFQS shall only be committed by ERCOT through a RUC instruction in instances when a reliability issue would not otherwise be managed through Dispatch Instructions from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED). 
(5)	In addition to On-Line qualified Resources, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource status of OFFQS for QSGRs that are qualified for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), as being eligible to provide ECRS constrained by the Ancillary Service capability in the COP.
(6)	In addition to On-Line qualified Resources, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource Status of OFFQS for QSGRs that are qualified for Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), as being eligible to provide Non-Spin constrained by the Ancillary Service Capability in the COP.  The RUC engine shall also consider a COP Resource Status of OFF (Off-Line but available for commitment in the DAM and RUC) for a Resource that is qualified for Non-Spin, as being eligible to provide Non-Spin constrained by the Ancillary Service capability in the COP.
(7)	The RUC process can recommend Resource decommitment.  ERCOT may only decommit a Resource to resolve transmission constraints that are otherwise unresolvable.  Qualifying Facilities (QFs) may be decommitted only after all other types of Resources have been assessed for decommitment.  In addition, the HRUC process provides decision support to ERCOT regarding a Resource decommitment requested by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(8)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the MIS Secure Area.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  
(9)	ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the MIS Secure Area any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
(10)	ERCOT shall use the RUC process to evaluate the need to commit Resources for which a QSE has submitted Three-Part Supply Offers and other available Off-Line Resources in addition to Resources that are planned to be On-Line during the RUC Study Period.  All of the above commitment information must be as specified in the QSE’s COP.  For available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (16) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements, the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offer from a Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer shall not be used in the RUC process. 
(11)	ERCOT shall create Three-Part Supply Offers for all Resources that did not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer, but are specified as available but Off-Line, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of EMR, in a QSE’s COP.  For such Resources, excluding available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (14) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall use in the RUC process 100% of any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as described specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, registered with ERCOT.  Also, for Settlement purposes, ERCOT shall use any approved verifiable Startup Costs and verifiable minimum-energy cost for such Resources, or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost.
(12)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT Operator of any physical limitation that impacts its Resource’s ability to start that is not reflected in the Resource’s COP or the Resource’s startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.  The following shall apply:
(a)	If a Resource receives a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it cannot meet due to a physical limitation described in paragraph (5) above, the QSE representing the Resource shall notify the ERCOT Operator of the inability to fully comply with the instruction and shall comply with the instruction to the best of the Resource’s ability.  If the QSE has provided the ERCOT Operator notice of that limitation at least seven days prior to the Operating Day in which the instruction occurs, the QSE shall be excused from complying with the portion of the RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to the identified limitation.  
(b)	If a QSE provides notice pursuant to paragraph (a) above of a physical limitation that will delay the RUC-committed Resource’s ability to reach its LSL in accordance with a RUC Dispatch Instruction, ERCOT shall extend the RUC Dispatch Instruction so that the Resource’s minimum run time is respected. However, if the Resource will not be available in time to address the issue for which it received the RUC instruction, ERCOT may instead cancel the RUC Dispatch Instruction.
(13)	A QSE shall be excused from complying with any portion of a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to a physical limitation that was reflected, at the time of the RUC Dispatch Instruction, in the Resource’s COP, startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.
(14)	To determine the projected energy output level of each Resource and to project potential congestion patterns for each hour of the RUC, ERCOT shall calculate proxy Energy Offer Curves based on the Mitigated Offer Caps (MOCs) for the type of Resource as specified in Section 4.4.9.4, Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor, for use in the RUC.  Proxy Energy Offer Curves are calculated by multiplying the MOC by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.10% and applying the cost for all Generation Resource output between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and LSL.  The intent of this process is to minimize the effect of the proxy Energy Offer Curves on optimization.  For ESRs, energy dispatch costs are not considered in determining projected energy output levels.
(15)	ERCOT shall calculate proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curves for use in RUC based on validated Ancillary Service Offers as specified in Section 4.4.7.2, Ancillary Service Offers.  For all Resources that do not have a valid Ancillary Service Offer but are qualified to provide an Ancillary Service, ERCOT shall create an Ancillary Service Offer Curve for use in RUC as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  Proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curves for use in RUC are calculated by multiplying the Ancillary Service Offer by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.1%, and are extended between the HSL and LSL.  Notwithstanding the presence or absence of a proxy Ancillary Service Offer, Ancillary Service provision in RUC shall be limited by the Resource’s Ancillary Service capabilities as reflected in the COP.  For ESRs, Ancillary Service Offer costs are not considered in determining projected Ancillary Service awards.
(16)	For all available Off-Line Resources having a cold start time of one hour or less and not removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall scale any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3 for use in the RUC process.  
The above parameter is defined as follows:
Parameter
Unit
Current Value*
1HRLESSCOSTSCALING
Percentage
Maximum value of 100%
*  The current value for the parameter(s) referenced in this table above will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter value(s) on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(17)	Factors included in the RUC process are: 
(a)	ERCOT System-wide hourly Load forecast allocated appropriately over Load buses;
(b)	ERCOT’s Ancillary Service Plans in the form of ASDCs;
(c)	Transmission constraints – Transfer limits on energy flows through the electricity network;
(i)	Thermal constraints – protect transmission facilities against thermal overload;
(ii)	Generic constraints – protect the transmission system against transient instability, dynamic instability or voltage collapse;
(d)	Planned transmission topology;
(e)	Energy sufficiency constraints, including RUC duration requirements for energy and Ancillary Services;
(f)	Inputs from the COP, as appropriate;
(g)	Inputs from Resource Parameters, including a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, as appropriate;
(h)	Each Generation Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer and Startup Offer, from its Three-Part Supply Offer;
(i)	Any Generation Resource that is Off-Line and available but does not have a Three-Part Supply Offer;
(j)	Forced Outage information;
(k)	Inputs from the eight-day look ahead planning tool, which may potentially keep a unit On-Line (or start a unit for the next day) so that a unit minimum duration between starts does not limit the availability of the unit (for security reasons); and
(l)	Ancillary Service Deployment Factors. 
(18)	The HRUC process and the DRUC process are as follows:
(a)	The HRUC process uses current Resource Status for the initial condition for the first hour of the RUC Study Period.  All HRUC processes use the projected status of transmission breakers and switches starting with current status and updated for each remaining hour in the study as indicated in the COP for Resources and in the Outage Scheduler for transmission elements. 
(b)	The DRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules up to the physical rating of the DC Tie for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules up to the physical rating of the DC Tie for each hour in the RUC Study Period.
(c)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead weather forecast for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the weather forecast information for each hour of the balance of the RUC Study Period.
(d)	For the HRUC, DRUC, and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) processes, a feasibility check on the COP submitted Hour Beginning Planned SOC will be performed.  This check may adjust the Hour Beginning Planned SOC used in the RUC process.  The feasibility check looks sequentially across all intervals in the RUC Study Period to validate whether a particular interval’s COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC is achievable from the previous interval.  If it is not feasible, then RUC will adjust the Hour Beginning Planned SOC to the closest achievable value.
(19)	A QSE with a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit or has not received an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) that has been committed in a DRUC or HRUC process may opt out of the RUC Settlement (or “buy back” the commitment) by setting the COP status of the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  All the configurations of the same Combined Cycle Train shall be treated as the same Resource for the purpose of creating the block of RUC-Committed Hours.  A RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource may opt out of the RUC Settlement by setting the COP status of any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the same Combined Cycle Train as the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed from one On-Line configuration in order to transition to a different configuration with additional capacity may opt out of the RUC Settlement following the same rule for RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources described above.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement forfeits RUC Settlement for the affected Resource for a given block of RUC Buy-Back Hours.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement treatment must make the Resource available to SCED for all RUC Buy-Back Hours.  All hours in a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours that includes the RUC Buy-Back Hour shall be considered RUC Buy-Back Hours.  If a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours spans more than one Operating Day and a QSE wishes to opt out of RUC Settlement for the RUC-Committed Hours in the second or subsequent Operating Day, the QSE must set its COP status to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of that the first Operating Day in the Opt Out Snapshot of the first Operating Day.
(20)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the MIS Secure Area a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
(21)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3 and Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adders.
(22)	A Resource that has self-committed for an Operating Hour after the RUC Snapshot was taken but before the RUC commitment has been communicated through an XML message for that RUC process and that Operating Hour is included in a block of RUC-committed hours for that RUC process will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Section 6.5.7.3.1, Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC) calculations, and RUC Settlement for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  A QSE that has a Resource that meets these conditions must make the Resource available to SCED for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  ERCOT will send the QSE a notification stating the Operating Day and block of hours for which this occurred.