3.17.1	Regulation Service 
(1)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Up capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency. A Generation Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to increase energy output when deployed and decrease energy output when recalled.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to decrease Load when deployed and increase Load when recalled.  Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up) is a subset of Reg-Up Service in which the participating Resource provides Reg-Up capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or the detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Up by a Load Frequency Control (LFC) signal.  The LFC signal for FRRS-Up is separate from the LFC signal for other Reg-Up.   
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Up capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency. A Generation Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to increase energy output when deployed and decrease energy output when recalled.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to decrease Load when deployed and increase Load when recalled.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Up by a Load Frequency Control (LFC) signal.
(2)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Down capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency.  A Generation Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to decrease energy output when deployed and increase energy output when recalled. A Load Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to increase Load when deployed and decrease Load when recalled.  Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) is a subset of Reg-Down Service in which a participating Resource provides Reg-Down capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or the detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Down by an LFC signal.  The LFC signal for FRRS-Down is separate from the LFC signal for other Reg-Down.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Down capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency.  A Generation Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to decrease energy output when deployed and increase energy output when recalled. A Load Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to increase Load when deployed and decrease Load when recalled.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Down by an LFC signal.