5.1	Introduction
(1)	Transmission security analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) are used to ensure ERCOT System reliability and to ensure that enough Resource capacity, in addition to Ancillary Service capacity, is committed in the right locations to reliably serve the forecasted Load on the ERCOT System including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load that has not been curtailed. 
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Transmission security analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) are used to ensure ERCOT System reliability and to ensure that enough Resource capacity and qualified Ancillary Service capacity are committed in the right locations to reliably serve the forecasted Load and Ancillary Service needs on the ERCOT System including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load that has not been curtailed.
(2)	ERCOT shall conduct at least one Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and at least one Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) before each hour of the Operating Day.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may conduct a RUC at any time to evaluate and resolve reliability issues.
(3)	The DRUC must be run after the close of the Day-Ahead Market (DAM). 
(4)	The DRUC uses Three-Part Supply Offers, capped at the maximum of generic or verifiable minimum energy and Startup Costs, submitted before the DAM by Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) that were considered in the DAM but not awarded in the DAM.  A QSE may not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer to be considered in the DRUC unless the offer was also submitted for consideration in the DAM.
(5)	ERCOT must initiate the HRUC process at least one hour before the Operating Hour to fine-tune the Resource commitments using updated Load forecasts and updated Outage information. 
(6)	The RUC Study Period for DRUC is the next Operating Day.  The RUC Study Period for HRUC is the balance of the current Operating Day plus the next Operating Day if the DRUC for the Operating Day has been solved. 
(7)	HRUC may decommit Resources only to maintain the reliability of the ERCOT System. 
(8)	For each RUC Study Period, the RUC considers capacity requirements for each hour of the RUC Study Period with the objective of minimizing costs based on logic described in Section 5.5.2, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process.
(9)	The calculated Resource commitments arising from each RUC process, and a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, must be reviewed by ERCOT before issuing Dispatch Instructions to QSEs to commit, extend, or decommit Resources.
(10)	The Security Sequence is a set of prerequisite processes for RUC that describes the key system components and inputs that are required to support the RUC process, the RUC process itself, and the ERCOT review of the Resource commitment recommendations made by the RUC process. 
(11)	The RUC process may not be used to buy Ancillary Service unless the Ancillary Service Offers submitted in the DAM are insufficient to meet the requirements of the Ancillary Service Plan.  
[NPRR1009:  Delete paragraph (11) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(12)	After the use of market processes to the fullest extent practicable without jeopardizing the reliability of the ERCOT System, any ERCOT Dispatch Instructions for additional capacity that order a QSE to commit a specific Generation Resource to be On-Line shall be considered a RUC Dispatch for the purpose of the Settlement of payments and charges related to the committed Generation Resource.  An Operating Condition Notice (OCN), Advisory, Watch, or Emergency Notice requesting the available capacity of any currently available Generation Resources but not naming specific Generation Resources is not considered a RUC Dispatch for purposes of Settlement.
(13)	ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area, for each Off-Line Generation Resource that may be selected by an HRUC process, the current time since the Generation Resource last went Off-Line (in hours) and the corresponding start-up times ERCOT is using for each such Off-Line Generation Resource.  The time since the Generation Resource last went Off-Line and start-up times shall be updated at least hourly.
(14)	Prior to 1330 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT may issue a Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to inform a QSE that a Resource is required to be On-Line for all or part of a future Operating Day.  Following the receipt of a WRUC: 
(a)	The QSE may self-commit the Resource for the WRUC-instructed hours by updating the Resource’s Current Operating Plan (COP) to reflect the appropriate On-Line Resource Status for the WRUC-instructed hours prior to the DRUC process execution for the associated Operating Day.  Resources that have been self-committed by a QSE in accordance with a WRUC:
(i)	May have a Three-Part Supply Offer submitted into the DAM, and any of the WRUC-instructed hours in which the Three-Part Supply Offer is awarded in the DAM become DAM-Committed Intervals for the Resource and are settled accordingly; and
(ii)	Will not be issued a RUC commitment for the WRUC-instructed hours that were self-committed or DAM-committed.
(b)	ERCOT will commit the Resource as part of the DRUC process for the relevant Operating Day for all WRUC-instructed hours not DAM-committed or QSE self-committed.  For all purposes, including RUC Settlement, the Resource will be considered as committed by the DRUC for these hours.
(15)	If ERCOT issues an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) pursuant to Section 3.1.4.6, Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions, or Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, QSEs with Resources that received an OSA shall be made whole to their actual costs incurred due to delaying or canceling and rescheduling the Outage as described in Section 5.6.5.1, Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs.