3.8.1	Split Generation Resources
(1)	When a generation meter is split, as provided for in Section 10.3.2.1, Generation Resource Meter Splitting, two or more independent Generation Resources must be created in the ERCOT Network Operations Model according to Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, to function in all respects as Split Generation Resources in ERCOT System operation.  A Combined Cycle Train may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.  A Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) or Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR) may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.  An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.
(2)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing a Split Generation Resource shall collect and shall submit to ERCOT the Resource Parameters defined under Section 3.7, Resource Parameters, for the Split Generation Resource it represents.  The parameters provided must be consistent with the parameters submitted by each other QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource from the same Generation Resource.  The parameters submitted for each Split Generation Resource for limits and ramp rates must be according to the capability of the Split Generation Resource represented by the QSE.  Startup and shutdown times, time to change status and number of starts must be identical for all the Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource submitted by each QSE.  ERCOT shall review data submitted by each QSE representing Split Generation Resources for consistency and notify each QSE of any errors.
(3)	Each Split Generation Resource may be represented by a different QSE.  The Resource Entities that own or control the Split Generation Resources from a single Generation Resource must designate a Master QSE.  Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource must comply in all respects to the requirements of a Generation Resource specified under these Protocols. 
(4)	The Master QSE shall: 
(a)	Serve as the Single Point of Contact for the Generation Resource, as required by Section 3.1.4.1, Single Point of Contact; 
(b)	Provide real-time telemetry for the total Generation Resource, as specified in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements; and 
(c)	Receive Verbal Dispatch Instructions (VDIs) from ERCOT, as specified in Section 6.5.7.8, Dispatch Procedures.  
(5)	Each QSE is responsible for representing its Split Generation Resource in its Current Operating Plan (COP).  During the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Periods, any conflict in the Resource Status of a Split Generation Resource in the COP is resolved according to the following:
(a)	If a Split Generation Resource has a Resource Status of OUT for any hour in the COP, then any other QSEs’ COP entries for their Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource are also considered unavailable for the hour; 
(b)	If the QSEs for all Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource have submitted a COP and at least one of the QSEs has an On-Line Resource Status in a given hour, then the status for all Split Generation Resources for the Generation Resource is considered to be On-Line for that hour, except if any of the QSEs has indicated in the COP a Resource Status of OUT.
(6)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource shall update its individual Resource Status appropriately.
(7)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource may independently submit Energy Offer Curves and Three-Part Supply Offers.  ERCOT shall treat each Split Generation Resource offer as a separate offer, except that all Split Generation Resources in a single Generation Resource must be committed or decommitted together. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource may independently submit Energy Offer Curves, Ancillary Service Offers, and Three-Part Supply Offers.  ERCOT shall treat each Split Generation Resource offer as a separate offer, except that all Split Generation Resources in a single Generation Resource must be committed or decommitted together.
(8)	Each QSE submitting verifiable cost data to ERCOT shall coordinate among all owners of a single Generation Resource to provide individual Split Generation Resource data consistent with the total verifiable cost of the entire Generation Resource.  ERCOT may compare the total verifiable costs with other similarly situated Generation Resources to determine the reasonability of the cost.