3.8.3	Quick Start Generation Resources
(1)	The QSE for a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) that is available for deployment by SCED shall set the COP Resource Status to OFFQS, and the COP Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and COP HSL values to the expected sustainable LSL and HSL for the QSGR for the hour.  If the QSGR is providing Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) service, then the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin shall be set to the Resource’s QSE-assigned Non-Spin responsibility in the COP.  If the QSGR is providing ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), then the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for ECRS shall be set to the Resource’s QSE-assigned ECRS responsibility in the COP. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	The QSE for a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) that is available for deployment by SCED and awarding of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), if qualified and capable, shall set the COP Resource Status to OFFQS, and the COP Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and COP HSL values to the expected sustainable LSL and HSL for the QSGR for the hour.
(2)	The QSGR that is available for deployment by SCED shall telemeter a Resource Status of OFFQS and a LSL of zero prior to receiving a deployment instruction from SCED.  This status is necessary in order for SCED to recognize that the Resource can be Dispatched.  The status of the breaker shall be open and the output of the Resource shall be zero in order for the State Estimator to correctly assess the state of the system.  After being deployed for energy from SCED, the Resource shall telemeter an LSL equal to or less than the Resource’s actual output until the Resource has ramped to its physical LSL.  After reaching its physical LSL, the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL that reflects its physical LSL.  The QSGR that is providing Off-Line Non-Spin shall always telemeter an Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin to reflect the Resource’s Non-Spin obligation and shall always telemeter an Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin of zero to make the capacity available for SCED.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	The QSGR that is available for deployment by SCED and awarding of ECRS and Non-Spin, if qualified and capable, shall telemeter a Resource Status of OFFQS and a LSL of zero prior to receiving a deployment instruction from SCED.  This status is necessary in order for SCED to recognize that the Resource can be Dispatched and/or awarded ECRS and Non-Spin.  The status of the breaker shall be open and the output of the Resource shall be zero in order for the State Estimator to correctly assess the state of the system.  After being deployed for energy from SCED, the Resource shall telemeter an LSL equal to or less than the Resource’s actual output until the Resource has ramped to its physical LSL.  After reaching its physical LSL, the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL that reflects its physical LSL.
(3)	A QSGR with a telemeter breaker status of open and a telemeter Resource Status OFFQS shall not provide Regulation Service or Responsive Reserve (RRS).
(4)	ERCOT shall adjust the QSGR’s Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC) curve as described in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
(5)	For a QSGR that is physically Off-Line, the Resource Entity shall submit a Normal Ramp Rate curve and Emergency Ramp Rate curve indicating QSGR’s ability to reach its ten-minute tested output from zero output in five minutes.  This is necessary to prevent SCED from deploying multiple QSGRs due to ramp limitation in the first five minutes after being Dispatched by SCED.  QSGRs shall be exempt from Base Point Deviation Charges as described in Section 6.6.5.3, Resources Exempt from Deviation Charges.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	For a QSGR that is physically Off-Line, the Resource Entity shall submit a Normal Ramp Rate curve and Emergency Ramp Rate curve indicating QSGR’s ability to reach its ten-minute tested output from zero output in five minutes.  This is necessary to prevent SCED from deploying multiple QSGRs due to ramp limitation in the first five minutes after being Dispatched by SCED.  QSGRs shall be exempt from Set Point Deviation Charges as described in Section 6.6.5.3, Resources Exempt from Deviation Charges.
(6)	Any hour in which the QSE for the QSGR has shown the Resource as available for SCED Dispatch as described in this Section 3.8.3 is considered a QSE-Committed Interval.
(7)	QSEs must submit and maintain an Energy Offer Curve for their QSGRs for all hours in which the COP Resource Status is submitted as OFFQS.  If a valid Energy Offer Curve or an Output Schedule does not exist for any QSGR for which a Resource Status of OFFQS is telemetered at the end of the Adjustment Period, then ERCOT shall notify the QSE and set the Output Schedule equal to the then-current telemetered output of the Resource until an Output Schedule or Energy Offer Curve is submitted in a subsequent Adjustment Period.  For use as SCED inputs, ERCOT shall create proxy Energy Offer Curves for the Resource as described in paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.
(8)	Other than for the potential decommitment of a QSGR as described in Section 3.8.3.1, Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process, following a SCED QSGR deployment, the QSGR is expected to follow the SCED Base Points.
3.8.3.1	Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process
(1)	For purposes of determining whether SCED needs a QSGR to continue to generate per paragraph (3) of Section 6.6.9, Emergency Operations Settlement, the QSE representing the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL of zero for at least one but no more than two non-consecutive SCED executions in each Operating Hour during which the QSGR is operating with a SCED Base Point equal to its registered LSL and shall telemeter Normal and Emergency Ramp Rates indicating that the QSGR can be Dispatched to zero output in a single SCED interval.    
(a)	If the SCED issued Base Point for the QSGR is non-zero in the interval where a zero LSL has been telemetered by the QSE, then the QSGR is deemed needed by SCED and the QSE shall immediately resume telemetering an LSL equal to the physical LSL and continue to operate the unit following subsequent Base Points.  
(b)	If the Base Point is zero, then the QSE will decommit the QSGR using normal operating practices.  
(c)	If at any point during the period in which the QSGR is in SHUTDOWN mode, the QSGR Locational Marginal Price (LMP) is greater than or equal to the Energy Offer Curve price, capped per Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, the QSE may reverse the decommitment process, if possible and make the QSGR available for SCED following normal operating practices.