3.8.7	Self-Limiting Facility 
(1)	A Resource Entity or Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Self-Limiting Facility may establish a MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit by submitting an attestation in a form designated by ERCOT through the Resource Registration process.  The Resource Entity or IE shall simultaneously provide a copy of the attestation to the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP).  All Resources within a Self-Limiting Facility shall be represented by a single Resource Entity and a single QSE.
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	A Resource Entity or Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Self-Limiting Facility may establish a MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit by submitting an attestation in a form designated by ERCOT through the Resource Registration process.  The Resource Entity or IE shall simultaneously provide a copy of the attestation to the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP).  All registered generators or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) within a Self-Limiting Facility shall be represented by a single Resource Entity and a single QSE.
(2)	A Self-Limiting Facility shall not inject or withdraw power in excess of its established MW Injection limit or its established MW Withdrawal limit. 
(3)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT will report to the Reliability Monitor and IMM any instance where a Self-Limiting Facility’s actual MW Injections exceeded the MW Injection limit or where actual MW Withdrawals exceeded the MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data for the Self-Limiting Facility, as described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria. 
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT will report to the Reliability Monitor and IMM any instance where a Self-Limiting Facility’s actual MW Injections exceeded the MW Injection limit or where actual MW Withdrawals exceeded the MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data for the Self-Limiting Facility, based on the telemetry of the injection and withdrawal values provided by the QSE for the registered generator or ESS in the Self-Limiting Facility, as described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, and in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, or based on the meter data at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC) for the Self-Limiting Facility.
(4)	If requested by ERCOT, the relevant QSE shall provide meter data to confirm whether the established limits for a Self-Limiting Facility were violated. 
(5)	If ERCOT determines that a Self-Limiting Facility connected at transmission voltage has exceeded either its MW Injection limit or its MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data by more than the greater of 5 MW or 3% of the limit, the Self-Limiting Facility shall submit a new generation interconnection request based on the installed MW capacity of the individual Resource(s) and shall deregister as a Self-Limiting Facility at the completion of the generation interconnection process.  The Self-Limiting Facility shall be subject to the established MW Injection limit and any established MW Withdrawal limit until the generation interconnection process has been completed.   
(6)	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may limit injections and withdrawals from any Generation Resource or ESR based on Resource Registration data and the interconnection agreement between the DSP and the IE or Resource Entity.  In that case, the IE or Resource Entity shall submit the attestation required by paragraph (1) above, and shall be considered a Self-Limiting Facility.  
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may limit injections and withdrawals from any Generation Resource, Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or ESR based on Resource Registration data and the interconnection agreement between the DSP and the IE or Resource Entity.  In that case, the IE or Resource Entity shall submit the attestation required by paragraph (1) above, and shall be considered a Self-Limiting Facility.
(7)	If ERCOT determines that a Self-Limiting Facility connected at distribution voltage has exceeded either its MW Injection limit or its MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data, the Self-Limiting Facility shall submit a new generation interconnection request based on the installed MW capacity of the individual Resource(s) and shall be deregistered as a Self-Limiting Facility at the completion of the generation interconnection process.  The Self-Limiting Facility shall be subject to any MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit until the generation interconnection process has been completed.     
(8)	The interconnecting TDSP, at its sole discretion, may use relaying to ensure a Self-Limiting Facility does not inject or withdraw energy in excess of its MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limits in order to protect the TDSP’s limiting element(s). 
[NPRR1029:  Insert Section 3.8.8 below upon system implementation:]