3.11.2	Planning Criteria
(1)	ERCOT and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) shall evaluate the need for transmission system improvements and shall evaluate the relative value of alternative improvements based on established technical and economic criteria. 
(2)	The technical reliability criteria are established by the Planning Guide, Operating Guides, and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  ERCOT and TSPs shall strongly endeavor to meet these criteria, identify current and future violations thereof and initiate solutions necessary to ensure continual compliance.
(3)	ERCOT shall attempt to meet these reliability criteria as economically as possible and shall actively study the need for economic projects to meet this goal.  
(4)	For economic projects, the net economic benefit of a proposed project, or set of projects, will be assessed over the project’s life based on the net societal benefit that is reasonably expected to accrue from the project.  The project will be recommended if it is reasonably expected to result in positive net societal benefits.  
(5)	To determine the societal benefit of a proposed project, the revenue requirement of the capital cost of the project is compared to the expected savings in system production costs resulting from the project over the expected life of the project.  Indirect benefits and costs associated with the project should be considered as well, where appropriate.  The current set of financial assumptions upon which the revenue requirement calculations is based will be reviewed annually, updated as necessary by ERCOT, and posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  The expected production costs are based on a chronological simulation of the security-constrained unit commitment and economic dispatch of the generators connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid to serve the expected ERCOT System Load over the planning horizon.  This market simulation is intended to provide a reasonable representation of how the ERCOT System is expected to be operated over the simulated time period.  From a practical standpoint, it is not feasible to perform this production cost simulation for the entire 30 to 40 year expected life of the project.  Therefore, the production costs are projected over the period for which a simulation is feasible and a qualitative assessment is made of whether the factors driving the production cost savings due to the project can reasonably be expected to continue.  If so, the levelized ERCOT-wide annual production cost savings over the period for which the simulation is feasible is calculated and compared to the first year annual revenue requirement of the transmission project.  If this production cost savings equals or exceeds this annual revenue requirement for the project, the project is economic from a societal perspective and will be recommended.
[NPRR1183:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	To determine the societal benefit of a proposed project, the revenue requirement of the capital cost of the project is compared to the expected savings in system production costs resulting from the project over the expected life of the project.  Indirect benefits and costs associated with the project should be considered as well, where appropriate.  The current set of financial assumptions upon which the revenue requirement calculations is based will be reviewed annually, updated as necessary by ERCOT, and posted on the ERCOT website.  The expected production costs are based on a chronological simulation of the security-constrained unit commitment and economic dispatch of the generators connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid to serve the expected ERCOT System Load over the planning horizon.  This market simulation is intended to provide a reasonable representation of how the ERCOT System is expected to be operated over the simulated time period.  From a practical standpoint, it is not feasible to perform this production cost simulation for the entire 30 to 40 year expected life of the project.  Therefore, the production costs are projected over the period for which a simulation is feasible and a qualitative assessment is made of whether the factors driving the production cost savings due to the project can reasonably be expected to continue.  If so, the levelized ERCOT-wide annual production cost savings over the period for which the simulation is feasible is calculated and compared to the first year annual revenue requirement of the transmission project.  If this production cost savings equals or exceeds this annual revenue requirement for the project, the project is economic from a societal perspective and will be recommended.
(6)	Other indicators based on analyses of ERCOT System operations may be considered as appropriate in the determination of benefits.  In order for such an alternate indicator to be considered, the costs must be reasonably expected to be on-going and be adequately quantifiable and unavoidable given the physical limitation of the transmission system.  These alternate indicators include:
(a)	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Settlement for unit operations;
(b)	Visible ERCOT market indicators such as clearing prices of Congestion Revenue Rights (CRRs); and
(c)	Actual Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) and observed congestion.