3.11.4	Regional Planning Group Project Review Process
3.11.4.1	Project Submission
(1)	Any stakeholder may initiate an RPG Project Review through the submission of a document describing the scope of the proposed transmission project to ERCOT.  Projects should be submitted with sufficient lead-time to allow the RPG Project Review to be completed prior to the date on which the project must be initiated by the designated TSP.  
(2)	Stakeholders may submit projects for RPG Project Review within any project Tier.  All transmission projects in Tiers 1, 2 and 3 shall be submitted.  TSPs are not required to submit Tier 4 projects for RPG Project Review, but shall include any Tier 4 projects in the cases used for development of the Regional Transmission Plan. 
(3)	All system improvements that are necessary for the project to achieve the system performance improvement, or to correct the system performance deficiency, for which the project is intended should be included into a single project submission.
(4) 	Facility ratings updates are not considered a project and are not subject to RPG Project Review.
3.11.4.2	Project Comment Process
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct a comment process which is open to the stakeholders for all proposed Tier 1, 2 and 3 projects.  The proposer of the project will have a reasonable period of time, as established by ERCOT, to answer questions and respond to comments submitted during this process.  The Planning Guide provides details of this process. 
3.11.4.3	Categorization of Proposed Transmission Projects
(1)	ERCOT classifies all proposed transmission projects into one of four categories (or Tiers).  Each Tier is defined so that projects with a similar cost and impact on reliability and the ERCOT market are grouped into the same Tier.  For Tier classification, the total estimated cost of the project shall be used which includes costs borne by another party.
(a) 	A project shall be classified as Tier 1 if the estimated capital cost is greater than or equal to $100,000,000, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(b)	A project shall be classified as Tier 2 if the estimated capital cost is less than $100,000,000 and a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) is required, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(c)	A project shall be classified as Tier 3 if any of the following are true:
(i)	The estimated capital cost is less than $100,000,000 and greater than or equal to $25,000,000 and a CCN is not required, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below; or
(ii)	The estimated capital cost is less than $25,000,000, a CCN is not required, and the project includes 345 kV circuit reconductor of more than one mile, additional 345/138 kV autotransformer capacity, or a new 345 kV substation, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(d)	A project with an estimated capital cost greater than or equal to $25,000,000 that is proposed for the purpose of replacing aged infrastructure or storm hardening shall be processed as a Tier 3 project and shall be reclassified as a Tier 4, neutral project upon ERCOT’s determination that any concerns, questions or objections raised during the comment process have been resolved satisfactorily.
(e)	A project shall be classified as Tier 4 if it does not meet the requirements to be classified as Tier 1, 2, or 3 or if it is considered a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(f)	A project shall be considered a neutral project if it consists entirely of:
(i)	The addition of or upgrades to radial transmission circuits; 
(ii)	The addition of equipment that does not affect the transfer capability of a circuit;
(iii)	Repair and replacement-in-kind projects; 
(iv)	Transmission Facilities needed to connect a new Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) to a new or existing substation on the existing ERCOT Transmission Grid, including the substation; 
(v)	The addition of static reactive devices; 
(vi)	A project to serve a new Load, unless such project would create a new transmission circuit connection between two stations (other than looping an existing circuit into the new Load-serving station);
(vii)	Replacement of failed equipment, even if it results in a ratings and/or impedance change; or
(viii)	Equipment upgrades resulting in only ratings changes.
(2)	ERCOT may use its reasonable judgment to increase the level of review of a proposed project (e.g., from Tier 3 to Tier 2) from that which would be strictly indicated by these criteria, based on stakeholder comments, ERCOT analysis or the system impacts of the project.
(a) 	A project with an estimated capital cost greater than or equal to $50,000,000 that requires a CCN shall be reclassified and processed as a Tier 1 project upon request by a Market Participant during the comment period per Planning Guide Section 3.1.5, Regional Planning Group Comment Process.
(3)	Any project that would be built by an Entity that is exempt (e.g., a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU)) from getting a CCN for transmission projects but would require a CCN if it were to be built by a regulated Entity will be treated as if the project would require a CCN for the purpose of defining the Tier of the project.
(4)	If during the course of ERCOT’s independent review of a project, the project scope changes, ERCOT may reclassify the project into the appropriate Tier.
3.11.4.4	Processing of Tier 4 Projects
(1)	For any project classified in Tier 4, ERCOT will not solicit comments from RPG, conduct any independent review, or provide any endorsement for the project. 
3.11.4.5	Processing of Tier 3 Projects
(1)	ERCOT shall accept a Tier 3 project if no concerns, questions or objections are provided during the project comment process.
(2)	If reasonable ERCOT or stakeholder concerns about a Tier 3 project cannot be resolved during the time period allotted by ERCOT, the project may be processed as a Tier 2 project, unless ERCOT assesses that reasonable progress is being made toward resolving these concerns.
3.11.4.6	Processing of Tier 2 Projects
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct an independent review of a submitted Tier 2 project as follows:
(a)	ERCOT’s independent review shall consist of studies and analyses necessary for ERCOT to make its assessment of whether the proposed project is needed and whether the proposed project is the preferred solution to the identified system performance deficiency that the project is intended to resolve;
(b)	ERCOT shall consider all comments received during the project comment process and factor reasonable comments into its independent review of the project;
(c)	ERCOT will attempt to complete its independent review for a project in 120 days or less.  If ERCOT is unable to complete its independent review based on RPG input within 120 days, ERCOT shall notify the RPG of the expected completion time;
(d)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, discuss submitted transmission projects at meetings of the RPG in order to obtain additional input into its independent review; and
(e)	ERCOT shall prepare a written report documenting the results of its independent review and recommendation on the project and shall distribute this report to the RPG.
3.11.4.7	Processing of Tier 1 Projects
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct an independent review of a submitted Tier 1 project as follows:
(a)	ERCOT’s independent review will consist of studies and analyses necessary for ERCOT to make its assessment of whether the proposed project is needed and whether the proposed project is the preferred solution to the identified system performance deficiency that the project is intended to resolve;
(b)	ERCOT will consider all comments received during the project comment process and factor reasonable comments into its independent review of the project;
(c)	ERCOT will attempt to complete its independent review for a project in 150 days or less.  If ERCOT is unable to complete its independent review based on RPG input within 150 days, ERCOT shall notify the RPG of the expected completion time;
(d)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, discuss submitted transmission projects at meetings of the RPG in order to obtain additional input into its independent review; and
(e)	ERCOT shall prepare a written report documenting the results of its independent review and recommendation on the project and shall distribute this report to the RPG.
(2)	Tier 1 projects require ERCOT Board endorsement.
3.11.4.8	Determine Designated Providers of Transmission Additions
(1)	Upon completion of an independent review, ERCOT shall determine the designated TSPs for any recommended transmission additions.  The designated TSP for a recommended transmission addition will be the TSP that owns the end point(s) of the recommended transmission addition.  The designated TSP can agree to provide the recommended transmission addition or delegate the responsibility to another TSP.  If different TSPs own the two end points of a recommended transmission addition, ERCOT will designate them as co-providers of the recommended transmission addition, and they can decide between themselves what parts of the recommended transmission addition they will each provide.  If they cannot agree, ERCOT will determine their responsibility following a meeting with the parties.  If a designated TSP agrees to provide a recommended transmission addition but does not diligently pursue the recommended transmission addition (during the time frame before a CCN is filed, if required) in a manner that will meet the required in-service date, then upon concurrence of the ERCOT Board, ERCOT will solicit interest from TSPs through the RPG and will designate an alternate TSP.
3.11.4.9	Regional Planning Group Acceptance and ERCOT Endorsement
(1)	For Tier 3 projects, successful resolution of all comments received from ERCOT and stakeholders during the project comment process will result in RPG acceptance of the proposed project.  An RPG acceptance letter shall be sent to the TSP(s) for the project, the project submitter (if different from the TSP(s)), and posted on the MIS Secure Area.  For Tier 2 projects, ERCOT’s recommendation as a result of its independent review of the proposed project will constitute ERCOT endorsement of the need for a project except as noted in paragraph (4) below.  For Tier 1 projects, ERCOT’s endorsement is obtained upon affirmative vote of the ERCOT Board except as noted in paragraph (4) below.  An ERCOT endorsement letter shall be sent to the TSP(s) for the project, the project submitter (if different from the TSP(s)), and the PUCT, and posted on the MIS Secure Area upon receipt of ERCOT’s endorsement for Tier 1 and Tier 2 projects except as noted in paragraph (4) below.
(2)	Following the completion of its independent review, ERCOT shall present all Tier 1 projects for which it finds a need to the ERCOT Board and shall provide a report to the ERCOT Board explaining the basis for its determination of need.  Prior to presenting the project to the ERCOT Board, ERCOT shall present the project to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for review and comment.  Comments from TAC shall be included in the presentation to the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT will make a reasonable effort to make these presentations to TAC and the ERCOT Board at the next regularly scheduled meetings following completion of its independent review of the project.
(3)	If the asserted need for a Tier 1 or Tier 2 project is based on a service request from a specific customer, a TSP may submit the project for RPG Project Review prior to that customer signing a letter agreement for the financial security of the necessary upgrades.  However, ERCOT shall not issue an independent review recommending such a project until the customer signs any required letter agreement, provides any required notice to proceed, and provides the full amount of any financial security required for the upgrades needed to serve that customer.
(4)	If a TSP asserts a need for a proposed Tier 1 or Tier 2 project based in part or in whole on its own planning criteria, then ERCOT's independent review shall also consider whether a reliability need exists under the TSP’s criteria.  If ERCOT identifies a reliability need under the TSP’s criteria, then ERCOT shall recommend a project that would address that need as well as any reliability need identified under NERC or ERCOT criteria, but shall explicitly state in the independent review report that ERCOT has assumed the TSP’s criteria are valid and that an assessment of the validity of the TSP’s criteria is beyond the scope of ERCOT’s responsibility.  ERCOT or the ERCOT Board may provide a qualified endorsement of such a project if ERCOT determines that it is justified in part under ERCOT or NERC criteria, as described in paragraph (1) above.  However, neither ERCOT nor the ERCOT Board shall endorse a project that is determined to be needed solely to meet a TSP’s criteria.
3.11.4.10	Modifications to ERCOT Endorsed Projects
(1)	If the TSP for an ERCOT-endorsed project determines a need to make a significant change to the facilities included in the project (such as the line endpoint(s), number of circuits, voltage level, decrease in rating or similar major aspect of the project), the TSP shall notify ERCOT of the details of that change prior to filing a CCN application, if required, or prior to beginning the final design of the project if no CCN application is required.  If ERCOT concurs that the proposed change is significant, the change shall be processed as a Tier 3 project, unless ERCOT determines the project should more appropriately be processed in another Tier.
(2) 	For economic-driven projects, if a TSP determines that the estimated project cost has increased by more than 10% over the cost described in ERCOT’s endorsement, the TSP shall notify RPG prior to filing a CCN application if required, or prior to beginning the final design of the project if no CCN application is required, and provide an explanation for the cost increase.  For comparison purposes, the cost of the route that best meets PUCT criteria will be used.
3.11.4.11	Customer or Resource Entity Funded Transmission Projects
(1)       If an affected TSP elects to pursue a Customer or Resource Entity funded transmission project that would have been classified as a Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 project for RPG Project Review, the TSP(s) shall conduct a reliability impact assessment of the proposed transmission project and shall submit a report summarizing the results of the reliability impact assessment for RPG Project Review.  Such projects shall be processed according to their Tier classification and shall be reclassified as a Tier 4, neutral project upon ERCOT’s determination that any concerns, questions or objections raised during the comment process have been resolved satisfactorily. 
(2)	ERCOT’s independent review of a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Customer or Resource Entity funded transmission project will be limited to assessing the reliability and congestion impact of the proposed project and submitting a report summarizing the results and findings to RPG for review and discussion.  ERCOT will not endorse the project and will not present the project to the ERCOT Board.  However, ERCOT may recommend the project not be implemented or recommend changes to the project scope if, in ERCOT’s sole discretion, the project negatively impacts the reliability or congestion of the ERCOT System.
(3)	Customer or Resource Entity funded Tier 4 projects do not need to go through this review process.