3.22.1	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment
(1)	In the SSR vulnerability assessment, each transmission circuit is considered as a single Outage.  A common tower Outage of two circuits or the Outage of a double-circuit transmission line will be considered as two transmission Outages.
3.22.1.1 	Existing Generation Resource Assessment
(1)	ERCOT shall perform a one-time SSR vulnerability assessment on all existing Generation Resources as described in paragraphs (a) through (f) below.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource is considered an existing Generation Resource if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, on or before August 12, 2013.  
(a)	ERCOT shall perform a topology-check on all existing Generation Resources.  
(b)	If during the topology-check ERCOT determines that an existing Generation Resource will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria, and will provide the frequency scan assessment results to the affected Resource Entity.
(c)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above indicates potential SSR vulnerability, the Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)) that owns the affected series capacitor(s), in coordination with the interconnecting TSP, shall perform a detailed SSR analysis in accordance with Section 3.22.2 to determine SSR vulnerability, unless ERCOT, in consultation with and in agreement with of the affected TSP(s) and the affected Resource Entity, determines the frequency scan assessment is sufficient to determine the SSR vulnerability.  
(d)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (b) and/or (c) above indicates that an existing Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with the interconnecting TSP, ERCOT, and the affected Resource Entity to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system.
(e)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (b) and/or (c) above indicates that an existing Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring.
(f)	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.1.2 	Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment
(1)	In the security screening study for a Generation Resource Interconnection or Change Request, ERCOT will perform a topology-check and determine if the Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  
(2)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, the interconnecting TSP shall perform an SSR study including frequency scan assessment and/or detailed SSR assessment for the Interconnecting Entity (IE) in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria, to determine SSR vulnerability.  The SSR study shall determine which system configurations create vulnerability to SSR.  Alternatively, if the IE can demonstrate to ERCOT’s and the interconnecting TSP’s satisfaction that the Generation Resource or ESR is not vulnerable to SSR, then the interconnecting TSP is not required to perform the SSR study.  If an SSR study is conducted, the interconnecting TSP shall submit it to ERCOT upon completion and shall include any SSR Mitigation plan developed by the IE that has been reviewed by the TSP.
(3)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the IE shall develop an SSR Mitigation plan, provide it to the interconnecting TSP for review and inclusion in the TSP’s SSR study report to be approved by ERCOT, and implement the SSR Mitigation prior to Initial Synchronization.  
(a)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four concurrent transmission Outages, the IE may install SSR Protection in lieu of SSR Mitigation, as required by paragraph (3) above, if:
(i)	The Generation Resource or ESR satisfied Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, between August 12, 2013 and March 20, 2015;
(ii)	The SSR Protection is approved by ERCOT; and
(iii)	The Generation Resource or ESR installs the ERCOT-approved SSR Protection prior to Initial Synchronization.
(b)	For any Generation Resource or ESR that satisfied Planning Guide Section 6.9 before September 1, 2020, if the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, the IE may elect not to develop or implement an SSR Mitigation plan, in which case ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring.  The IE shall provide ERCOT written Notice of any such election before the Generation Resource or ESR achieves Initial Synchronization, and the Generation Resource or ESR shall not be permitted to proceed to Initial Synchronization until ERCOT has implemented SSR monitoring. 
(4)	ERCOT shall respond with its comments or approval of an SSR study report, which should include any required SSR Mitigation plan, within 30 days of receipt.  ERCOT comments should be addressed as soon as practicable by the TSP, and any action taken in response to ERCOT’s comments on an SSR study report shall be subject to further ERCOT review and approval.  Upon approval of the SSR study report, ERCOT shall notify the interconnecting TSP, and the interconnecting TSP shall provide the approved SSR study report to the IE.
3.22.1.3 	Transmission Project Assessment
(1)	For any proposed Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including a topology-check and/or frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  The TSP shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the project submission to the Regional Planning Group (RPG) pursuant to Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  For Tier 4 projects that include Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall provide the SSR assessment for ERCOT’s review.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource is considered an existing Generation Resource if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the Transmission Facilities are proposed.
(2)	If while performing the independent review of a transmission project, ERCOT determines that the transmission project may cause an existing Generation Resource or a Generation Resource satisfying Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the transmission project is proposed to become vulnerable to SSR, ERCOT shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including topology-check and frequency scan in accordance with Section 3.22.2 if such an assessment was not included in the project submission.  ERCOT shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the independent review.
(3)	If the frequency scan assessment in paragraphs (1) or (2) above indicates potential SSR vulnerability in accordance with Section 3.22.2, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor(s), in coordination with the TSP proposing the Transmission Facilities, shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(4)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
(5)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed prior to RPG acceptance, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(6)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(7)	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.1.4 	Annual SSR Review
(1)	ERCOT shall perform an SSR review annually.  The annual review shall include the following elements: 
(a)	The annual review shall include a topology-check applying the system network topology that is consistent with a year 3 Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base case developed in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.1, Steady-State Model Development.  ERCOT shall post the SSR annual topology-check report to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area by May 31 of each year.
(b)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource will become radial to series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  ERCOT shall prepare a report to summarize the results of the frequency scan assessment and provide it to the Resource Entity and the affected TSP.
(i)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above shows the Generation Resource has potential SSR vulnerability in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element in coordination with the interconnecting TSP shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(ii)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
(iii)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and install SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(iv)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(v) 	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.