Capacity Trade 
A QSE-to-QSE financial transaction that transfers responsibility to supply capacity between a buyer and a seller at a Settlement Point.
Cash Collateral
A Counter-Party’s cash funds held by ERCOT to satisfy ERCOT creditworthiness requirements, as described in paragraph (c) of Section 16.11.3, Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements.
Central Prevailing Time (CPT)
Either Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time, in effect in Austin, Texas. 
Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE)
The government agency in Mexico charged with the responsibility of operating the Mexican national electricity grid.
Commercial Operations Date
The date on which an Interconnecting Entity (IE) or a Resource Entity expects that construction and trial operation of a Resource will be completed and the Resource is expected to complete the Resource interconnection process and be approved for participation in ERCOT market operations.
Common Information Model (CIM)
A standard way to communicate information about a transmission system.  The CIM is used to describe the ERCOT transmission system topology consisting of Transmission Elements, including all the parameters needed to describe the Transmission Elements and how they interrelate to one another.  The CIM that ERCOT and the TSP use must conform to the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) standards for CIMs.
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Common Information Model (CIM)” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Common Information Model (CIM)
A standard way to communicate information about a transmission system.  The CIM is used to describe the ERCOT transmission system topology consisting of Transmission Elements, including all the parameters needed to describe the Transmission Elements and how they interrelate to one another.  The CIM that ERCOT and Market Participants use must conform to the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) standards for CIMs.
Competitive Constraint
A contingency and limiting Transmission Element pair or group of Transmission Elements associated with a Generic Transmission Constraint (GTC) that is determined to be competitive using the process defined in Section 3.19, Constraint Competitiveness Tests.
Competitive Retailer (CR)
A Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or an Electric Cooperative (EC) that offers Customer Choice and sells electric energy at retail in the restructured electric power market in Texas, or a Retail Electric Provider (REP).
Competitive Retailer (CR) of Record
The CR assigned to the Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) in ERCOT’s database.  There can be no more than one CR of Record assigned to an ESI ID for any given time period.
Compliance Period
A calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31 in which Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) are required of a Retail Entity.
Compliance Premium
A payment awarded by the Program Administrator in conjunction with a Renewable Energy Credit (REC) that is generated by a renewable energy source that is not powered by wind and meets the criteria of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  For the purpose of the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) requirements, one Compliance Premium is equal to one REC.
[NPRR1218:  Replace the definition “Compliance Premium” above with the following upon system implementation:]
Compliance Premium
A payment awarded by the Program Administrator in conjunction with a Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC) that is generated by a renewable energy source that meets the criteria of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  For the purpose of the Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) requirements, one Compliance Premium is equal to one SREC.
Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating (see Rating)
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR)
A financial instrument that entitles the holder to be charged or to receive compensation (i.e., congestion rent), depending on the instrument, when the ERCOT Transmission Grid is congested in the DAM or in Real-Time. 
Flowgate Right (FGR) 
A type of CRR that entitles the holder to receive compensation and is evaluated in each CRR Auction and DAM as the positive power flows represented by the quantity of the CRR bid or offer (MW) on a flowgate (i.e., predefined directional network element or a predefined bundle of directional network elements).
Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation 
A type of CRR that entitles the holder to be charged or to receive compensation and is evaluated in each CRR Auction and DAM as the positive and negative power flows on all directional network elements created by the injection and withdrawal at the specified source and sink points of the quantity represented by the CRR bid or offer (MW). 
Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation with Links to an Option
A type of CRR that entitles a Non-Opt-In Entity’s (NOIE’s) PTP Obligation bought in the DAM to be reflective of the NOIE’s PTP Option.  To qualify as a PTP Obligation of this type, the source and sink pairs on both the NOIE’s PTP Obligation and the NOIE’s PTP Option shall be the same, and the MWs of the NOIE’s PTP Obligations shall be less than or equal to the number of MWs of the NOIE’s PTP Option.  Qualified PTP Obligations with Links to an Option shall be settled as if they were a PTP Option.
Point-to-Point (PTP) Option
A type of CRR that is evaluated in each CRR Auction and DAM as the positive power flows on all directional network elements created by the injection and withdrawal at the specified source and sink points in the quantity represented by the CRR bid or offer (MW), excluding all negative flows on all directional network elements.  A PTP Option entitles the holder to receive compensation equal to the positive energy price difference between the sink and the source Settlement Point Prices.  A PTP Option with Refund is evaluated in the same manner and compensated as described in Section 7.4.2, PCRR Allocations and Nominations. 
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder
An Entity that is qualified to become the owner of record of CRRs and is registered as a CRR Account Holder with ERCOT.
Participating Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder
For a given CRR Auction, a CRR Account Holder who either owns one or more CRRs effective during the Operating Days covered by the CRR Auction, or whose Counter-Party has a non-zero credit limit available and allocated to the CRR Auction as described in paragraph (1) of Section 7.5.5.3, Auction Process.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction
A periodic auction by ERCOT that allows eligible CRR Account Holders to buy and sell CRRs.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Capacity
The fraction of the network capacity that is offered for sale in a given CRR Auction.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) First Offering
The CRR Auction, which is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, in which a series of calendar months of CRRs is offered for sale for the first time.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Long-Term Auction Sequence
A series of six CRR Auctions held consecutively, each of which entails the sale of a six-month window of CRRs.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Monthly Auction
The CRR Auction in which a calendar month is offered for sale for the last time.  This CRR Auction may, but is not required to, be conducted on the same dates as a CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Network Model
A model of ERCOT network topology to be used in conducting a CRR Auction.  It must be based on, but is not the same as, the Updated Network Model, as detailed in Section 3.10.3, CRR Network Model.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Owner
A CRR Account Holder that owns one or more CRRs.
Constant Frequency Control (CFC)
An operating mode of an Automatic Generation Control (AGC) system.  While in CFC, an AGC system will monitor only the frequency error to determine Resource adjustments needed to balance sources and obligations.  CFC controls generation to increase or decrease by the amount of frequency deviation multiplied by the bias. 
Constraint Management Plan (CMP)
A set of pre-defined manual transmission system actions, or automatic transmission system actions that do not constitute a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS), which are executed in response to system conditions to prevent or to resolve one or more thermal or non-thermal transmission security violations or to optimize the transmission system.  CMPs may be developed in cases where studies indicate economic dispatch alone may be unable to resolve a transmission security violation or in response to Real-Time conditions where Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) is unable to resolve a transmission security violation.  ERCOT will employ CMPs to facilitate the market use of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, while maintaining system security and reliability in accordance with the Protocols, Operating Guides and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  CMPs are intended to supplement, not to replace, the use of SCED for prevention or resolution of one or more thermal or non-thermal transmission security violations.  CMPs include, but are not limited to the following:
[NPRR1198:  Replace the above definition “Constraint Management Plan (CMP)” with the following upon system implementation:]
Constraint Management Plan (CMP)
A set of pre-defined manual transmission system actions, or automatic transmission system actions that do not constitute a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS), which are executed in response to system conditions to prevent or to resolve one or more thermal or non-thermal transmission security violations or to optimize the transmission system.  ERCOT will employ CMPs to maintain system security and reliability in accordance with the Protocols, Nodal Operating Guides and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  CMPs include, but are not limited to the following:
Automatic Mitigation Plan (AMP) 
A set of pre-defined automatic actions to execute post-contingency to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating, excluding any set of automatic actions that constitute a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS).  AMPs shall only include schemes which switch series reactors by monitoring quantities that are solely located at the same substation as the switched device.  AMPs shall not include adjusting or tripping generation or Load shedding and shall not be implemented on Interconnection Reliability Operating Limits (IROLs). 
[NPRR1198:  Insert the definition “Extended Action Plan (EAP)” below upon system implementation:]
Extended Action Plan (EAP)
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute pre-contingency and to remain in place for a pre-defined period of time to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  EAPs may be proposed by any Market Participant or developed by ERCOT and can be utilized for reliability or economic reasons.  EAPs proposed for reliability reasons may have thermal constraints that do not have a Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) solution.  EAPs proposed for economic reasons may have thermal constraints that are resolvable by SCED but result in high congestion costs and meet the criteria outlined in Nodal Operating Guide Section 11, Constraint Management Plans and Remedial Action Schemes.  An EAP may include transmission switching and does not include Load shedding.  EAPs shall be managed via the Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) and Outage scheduling processes as described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 11.8.1, Extended Action Plan (EAP) Process.
Mitigation Plan
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute post-contingency to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  A Mitigation Plan must be implementable and may include transmission switching and Load shedding.  Mitigation Plans shall not be used to manage constraints in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).
Pre-Contingency Action Plan (PCAP)
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute pre-contingency to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  A PCAP may include transmission switching and does not include Load shedding.  A PCAP may also be implemented for the duration of an Outage and shall be included in the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable.  
Remedial Action Plan (RAP)
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute post-contingency to address voltage issues or in order to reduce loading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating within 15 minutes.  RAPs are sufficiently dependable to assume they can be executed without loss of reliability to the interconnected network, with restoration of normal operating conditions and below Normal Rating within two hours as defined in the Network Operations Model.  RAPs may be relied upon in allowing additional use of the transmission system in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  RAPs shall not include generation re-Dispatch or Load shedding.
Temporary Outage Action Plan (TOAP)
A temporary set of pre-defined manual actions to execute post-contingency, during a specified Transmission Facility or Resource Outage, in order to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  A TOAP must be implementable and may include transmission switching and/or Load shedding.  TOAPs shall not be used to manage constraints in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).
Continuous Service Agreement (CSA)
An arrangement between the owner or controller of a leased Premise and a CR wherein the CR provides service to the leased Premise between tenants so that the Premise does not experience discontinuation of electric service during vacancy.
Control Area
An electrical system, bound by interconnect (tie line) metering and telemetry, that continuously regulates, through automatic Resource control, its Resource(s) and interchange schedules to match its system Load and frequency schedule.
Control Area Operator (CAO)
An individual or set of individuals responsible for monitoring and controlling operation of a Control Area.
Controllable Load Resource (see Resource)
Controllable Load Resource Desired Load
The MW consumption for a Controllable Load Resource produced by summing its Scheduled Power Consumption and Ancillary Service deployments.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Controllable Load Resource Desired Load” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Cost Allocation Zone
One of the four zones in effect during the 2003 ERCOT market as they are changed pursuant to Section 3.4.2, Load Zone Modifications.  A Cost Allocation Zone may be used by ERCOT to uplift certain costs to a QSE’s Load regardless of NOIE Load Zone.
Counter-Party
A single Entity that is a QSE and/or a CRR Account Holder.  A Counter-Party includes all registrations as a QSE, all subordinate QSEs, and all CRR Account Holders by the same Entity.
Credible Single Contingency
(1)	The Forced Outage of any single Transmission Facility or, during a single fault, the Forced Outage of multiple Transmission Facilities (single fault multiple element);
(2)	The Forced Outage of a double-circuit transmission line in excess of 0.5 miles in length;
(3)	The Forced Outage of any single Generation Resource, and in the case of a Combined Cycle Train, the Forced Outage of the combustion turbine and the steam turbine if they cannot operate separately as provided in the Resource registration process; or
(4)	For transmission planning purposes, contingencies are defined in the Planning Guide.
Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE)
(1)	Equipment accessible by means of routable connectivity that, as installed, can be used to gain remote access to or control of ERCOT System Infrastructure, the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN), or Market Information System (MIS), if such equipment, if destroyed, degraded, misused, or otherwise rendered unavailable would, within 15 minutes or less of its mis-operation, non-operation, or required operation, adversely impact the reliable operation of ERCOT System Infrastructure.  Redundancy of affected facilities, systems, and equipment shall not be considered when determining adverse impact. 
(2)	For Load Resources, this definition only applies to equipment used to send and receive ERCOT telemetry and ERCOT Dispatch Instructions.  
(3)	For purposes of this definition, “reliable operation of ERCOT System Infrastructure” means operating elements of ERCOT System Infrastructure within equipment and electric system thermal, voltage, and stability limits so that instability, uncontrolled separation, or cascading failures of ERCOT System Infrastructure will not occur as a result of a sudden disturbance, including a cybersecurity incident, or unanticipated failure of system elements. 
Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS)
Services and software provided by a vendor for the operation, control, monitoring, maintenance, or use of Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE), excluding access specifically allowed by the purchaser for product warranty or support purposes.
Critical Load
A Load that is designated as, or has a pending application to be designated as, a Critical Load Public Safety Customer, Critical Load Industrial Customer, Chronic Condition Residential Customer, or Critical Care Residential Customer pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.497, Critical Load Industrial Customers, Critical Load Public Safety Customers, Critical Care Residential Customers, and Chronic Condition Residential Customers, or as a critical load under any other category identified under Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Rules.    
Current Operating Plan (COP)
A plan by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) reflecting anticipated operating conditions for each of the Resources that it represents for each hour in the next seven Operating Days, including Resource operational data, Resource Status, and Ancillary Service Schedule. 
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Current Operating Plan (COP)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Current Operating Plan (COP)
A plan by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) reflecting anticipated operating conditions for each of the Resources that it represents for each hour in the next seven Operating Days, including Resource operational data, Resource Status, and Ancillary Service capabilities.
Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot 
A record of a QSE’s Capacity Trades, Energy Trades, and most recent COP.  
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Customer
An Entity that purchases electricity for its consumption. 
Customer Choice
The freedom of a retail Customer to purchase electric services, either individually or on an aggregated basis with other retail Customers, from the provider or providers of the Customer’s choice and to choose among various fuel types, energy efficiency programs, and renewable power suppliers.
Customer Registration Database
The database maintained by the registration agent containing information identifying each Premise, including current and previous CRs serving the Premise. 
Cybersecurity Contact
The person, desk, or hotline designated by an Entity, as set forth in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, that is the primary point of contact for communications between the registered Entity and ERCOT with respect to Cybersecurity Incidents.  A Market Participant may designate a temporary Cybersecurity Contact for a particular Cybersecurity Incident pursuant to Section 16.19, Cybersecurity Incident Notification.
Cybersecurity Incident
A malicious or suspicious act that compromises or disrupts a computer network or system that could foreseeably jeopardize the reliability or integrity of the ERCOT System or ERCOT’s ability to perform the functions of an independent organization under the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA).