9.14.2	Notice of Dispute
(1)	A Settlement Statement Recipient may dispute items or calculations in the most recently issued Settlement Statement for an Operating Day, except as limited for RTM True-Up Statements in paragraph (3) below.  The dispute will apply to the Operating Day in question, not to the associated Settlement Statement.  The Market Participant must enter the Settlement and billing dispute electronically through the ERCOT dispute tool provided on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  In processing disputes under this Section, ERCOT will analyze the latest Settlement Statement issued.    
(2)	An Invoice Recipient may dispute elements of an Invoice that are not the result of a Settlement Statement that are contained on the Invoice.  The Invoice Recipient must file the Invoice dispute within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT posted the Invoice.
(3)	The Settlement Statement Recipient is deemed to have validated each RTM True-Up Statement or Resettlement Statement arising from the True-Up Statement unless it has raised a Settlement and billing dispute or reported an exception within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT issued the Settlement Statement.  With respect to an RTM True-Up Statement or any subsequent Resettlement Statement after ERCOT issued the True-Up Statement, ERCOT will consider only Settlement and billing disputes associated with incremental changes between the RTM True-Up Statement or Resettlement Statement, and the most recent previous Settlement Statement for that Operating Day.  The Settlement Statement Recipient may recover only the amounts associated with the incremental monetary change between the prior statement and the statement from which the dispute arose.  ERCOT shall reject late-filed Settlement and billing disputes.  Once the deadline for filing a dispute has passed, the RTM True-Up Statement binds the Settlement Statement Recipient to which it relates unless ERCOT issues a subsequent Resettlement Statement pursuant to this Section.    
(4)	ERCOT shall reject Settlement and billing disputes for a given Operating Day during the 20 Business Days before the scheduled date for issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement for that Operating Day. 
(5)	However, to the extent a disputing party claims that the Settlement or billing dispute relates to information made available under Section 1.3.3, Expiration of Confidentiality, the disputing party must register the Settlement and billing dispute with ERCOT by electronic means within 60 days after the date the information became available.  All communication to and from ERCOT concerning disputes must be made through either the MIS Certified Area or other electronic communication.
(6)	The Settlement Statement Recipient is deemed to have validated each DAM Settlement or Resettlement Statement unless it has raised a Settlement and billing dispute or reported an exception within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT issued the Settlement or Resettlement Statement.  With respect to a DAM Resettlement Statement, ERCOT will consider only Settlement and billing disputes associated with incremental changes between the DAM Resettlement Statement and the most recent previous Settlement Statement for that Operating Day.  The Settlement Statement Recipient may recover only the amounts associated with the incremental monetary change between the prior statement and the statement from which the dispute arose.  ERCOT shall reject late-filed Settlement and billing disputes.  Once the deadline for filing a dispute has passed, a DAM Statement binds the Settlement Statement Recipient to which it relates unless ERCOT issues a subsequent Resettlement Statement.
(7)	A CRR Auction Invoice, CRR Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) Invoice, or CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA) Invoice Recipient may dispute elements of an Invoice that are contained on the Invoice.  The Invoice Recipient must file the CRR Invoice dispute within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT posted the Invoice.