9.14.4	ERCOT Processing of Disputes
(1)	ERCOT shall process disputes in accordance with this Section, Section 9.14.2, Notice of Dispute, and the required data in Section 9.14.3, Contents of Notice.
(2)	If ERCOT requires additional data to resolve the dispute, ERCOT shall send the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient a list of the required additional data within seven Business Days of the date the dispute was filed.  The Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient shall respond with the entire set of required data within five Business Days of ERCOT’s request or by a date agreed upon by ERCOT and the Market Participant that is no later than eight Business Days prior to the posting of the True-Up Settlement Statement for the disputed Operating Day.  If ERCOT does not receive the data within that time frame, ERCOT shall deny the dispute.
(3)	On each Business Day, ERCOT shall issue an aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the MIS Secure Area containing information related to all disputes that are not yet closed or that have been closed recently.  Additionally, on each Business Day and for each Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient, ERCOT shall issue a report on the MIS Certified Area containing the status of each submitted dispute.  The report shall identify the disputed charge type(s), status of the dispute, resolution and resolution date, if applicable, and a financial impact in dollars of the dispute as submitted by disputing Entity.
(4)	ERCOT shall make all reasonable attempts to complete all RTM Settlement and billing disputes submitted within 15 Business Days of the issuance of the RTM Initial Statement in time for inclusion on the RTM Final Statement for the relevant Operating Day.
(5)	All complete disputes of the DAM received within ten Business Days after ERCOT posts that day’s DAM Settlement Statement shall be included in a Resettlement of the DAM Operating Day under Section 9.2.5, DAM Resettlement Statement.  
(6)	For Settlement and billing disputes requiring complex research or additional time for resolution, ERCOT shall notify the Invoice Recipient or Settlement Statement Recipient of the length of time expected to research and resolve those disputes and, if ERCOT grants a portion or all of the dispute, ERCOT shall post the necessary adjustments on the next available Settlement Statement for the Operating Day.  
(7)	Settlement Statement Recipients or Invoice Recipients have the right to proceed to the ADR process in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds, for filed disputes that cannot be resolved through the Settlement and billing dispute process outlined in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
(8)	All complete disputes of the CRR Market received within ten Business Days after ERCOT posts that day’s CRR Settlement Statement shall be resolved as soon as practicable.  
 9.14.4.1	Status of Dispute 
(1)	ERCOT will assign a status to each dispute as defined in the following Sections.
9.14.4.1.1	Not Started
(1)	The status of a Settlement and billing dispute will initially be set to “Not Started” when the Market Participant enters the dispute into the ERCOT dispute resolution system. 
9.14.4.1.2	Open 
(1)	The status of a Settlement and billing dispute is set to “Open” when the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient submits a dispute to ERCOT and ERCOT begins the resolution process. 
9.14.4.1.3	Closed
(1)	When the status is set to “Closed,” no updates or additions are permitted to the dispute record.  The status of the dispute is “Closed” when one of the following conditions occurs:
(a)	If, after 45 days from receiving notice of a denied dispute, the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient does not begin the ADR process, ERCOT will close the dispute.  
(b)	If ERCOT grants a Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT will close the dispute no sooner than the date ERCOT publishes the next available Settlement Statement or Invoice for the associated Operating Day.  
(c)	If ERCOT grants a dispute with exceptions, ERCOT will close the dispute no sooner than ten Business Days after ERCOT publishes the resolution.  If the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient disagrees with ERCOT’s exceptions, ERCOT will close dispute upon completion of further investigation and resolution in accordance with Section 9.14.4.2.3, Granted with Exceptions.
9.14.4.1.4	Rejected
(1)	ERCOT shall set the status of a Settlement and billing dispute to “Rejected” when one of the following circumstances is met:
(a) 	The dispute is filed late, unless filed in accordance with paragraph (5) of Section 9.14.2, Notice of Dispute, due to an expiration of confidentiality as defined under Section 1.3.3, Expiration of Confidentiality. 
(b)	During the 20 Business Days before the scheduled date for issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement for that Operating Day. 
(c)	The dispute does not contain the required data as set forth in Section 9.14.3, Contents of Notice.  ERCOT shall provide specific Protocol language supporting the reasons that data provided by the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient is insufficient.  If able to do so timely, an Invoice Recipient or Settlement Statement Recipient may resubmit the dispute with additional information under Section 9.14.2.  Once the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient submits the required information and ERCOT determines the Settlement and billing dispute is timely and complete, the dispute status is changed to “Open.”
9.14.4.1.5	Withdrawn
(1)	A Market Participant who submitted a Settlement and billing dispute may withdraw that dispute at any time.  If withdrawal occurs, the Dispute status is set to “Withdrawn” and any research and resolution activities on that dispute will cease. 
9.14.4.1.6	ADR
(1)	Requests for ADR shall be considered Protected Information in accordance with paragraph (1)(ff) of Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information, and Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  As soon as practicable after ERCOT receives a written request for ADR pursuant to Section 20.4, Initiation of ADR Proceedings, ERCOT shall post a Settlement and billing dispute status of “ADR” to the aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the MIS Secure Area.  The dispute will remain in the ADR status as long as the Market Participant has an active ADR.  At the end of the ADR process, ERCOT shall post a Settlement and billing dispute status of “Closed” to the aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the MIS Secure Area.
9.14.4.2	Resolution of Dispute
(1)	Each resolved dispute will have a resolution as defined in the following Sections.
9.14.4.2.1	Denied
(1)	If ERCOT concludes that the Settlement Statement or Invoice is correct, ERCOT shall deny the Settlement and billing dispute.  ERCOT shall notify the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient when it denies a Settlement and billing dispute and provide the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient the reasons and supporting data for the denial, while maintaining the confidentiality of Protected Information.  
(2)	If the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient is not satisfied with the outcome of a denied Settlement and billing dispute, the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient may proceed to ADR as described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  
9.14.4.2.2	Granted
(1)	When ERCOT determines that the disputed Settlement Statement or Invoice are in error as alleged in the Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT shall grant the Settlement and billing dispute and notify the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient of the resolution and provide it the reasons and supporting data for resolution, while maintaining the confidentiality of Protected Information.  ERCOT shall make available to all other Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipients the financial impact, as submitted by disputing Entity, on the Settlement and billing dispute resolution report per paragraph (3) of Section 9.14.4, ERCOT Processing of Disputes.  Upon resolution of the issue, ERCOT shall process the dispute’s resolution on the next available Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day.
9.14.4.2.3	Granted with Exceptions
(1)	ERCOT may determine that a Settlement and billing dispute is “Granted with Exceptions” when ERCOT deems the basis for the Settlement and billing dispute partially correct.  ERCOT shall provide the exception information to the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient.  ERCOT shall notify the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient of the “Granted with Exceptions” resolution and shall provide the reasons and supporting data, while maintaining the confidentiality of Protected Information for the resolution.  ERCOT shall make available to all other Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipients the financial impact, as submitted by the disputing Entity, on the Settlement and billing dispute resolution report per paragraph (3) of Section 9.14.4, ERCOT Processing of Disputes.  The Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient of the dispute granted with exceptions shall acknowledge receipt of the notice within ten Business Days after ERCOT publishes the resolution as “Granted with Exceptions”.  The acknowledgement must indicate acceptance or rejection of the documented exceptions to the granting of the dispute.  If the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient does not timely reject the dispute outcome, it shall be deemed accepted.  If the Market Participant accepts the exceptions, ERCOT shall post the necessary adjustments on the next available Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day. 
(2)	If a Settlement Invoice or Statement Recipient rejects the outcome of a dispute “Granted with Exceptions,” ERCOT must investigate the dispute further.  ERCOT must include the granted portion of the dispute on the next Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day.  After further investigation, if ERCOT subsequently grants the Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT must process the dispute on the next available Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day.  If exceptions to the dispute still exist, the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient may either accept the dispute for resolution as “Granted with Exceptions” or begin ADR according to Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.