9.14.9	Incremental Fuel Costs for Switchable Generation Make-Whole Payment Disputes 
(1)	For the purposes of any Settlement and billing dispute submitted pursuant to paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.6.12, Make-Whole Payment for Switchable Generation Resources Committed for Energy Emergency Alert (EEA), if the actual price paid for delivered natural gas for a specific Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) for an instructed hour is greater than FIP plus the fuel adder, then the QSE may recover the fuel costs incurred for that SWGR in the Settlement and billing dispute.  The QSE must provide documentation (invoices) that identifies intra-day costs of natural gas consumed.  All documentation submitted by the QSE for natural gas costs incurred intra-day must show a nexus from the seller or distributor of natural gas products to the QSE, Resource Entity or Generation Entity as the ultimate buyer.  The QSE must demonstrate that the seller or distributor has procured natural gas fuel intra-day.  
(2)	For the purposes of any Settlement and billing dispute submitted pursuant to paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.6.12, if the actual price paid for the delivered fuel oil used to replace oil consumed for an instructed hour is greater than FOP plus the fuel adder, then the QSE may recover the fuel costs incurred for that SWGR in the dispute.  The QSE must provide documentation that identifies purchases of fuel oil by the QSE, Resource Entity, or Generation Entity to replace oil consumed.  In addition, the QSE must provide proof that the SWGR actually consumed fuel oil for the instructed hour.  Proof of actual consumption may be based on the Resource’s technical specifications or flow meters as appropriate.  Documentation of fuel oil purchases must show that these were made no later than seven Business Days after the end of the last consecutive instructed hour. 
(3)	A QSE submitting documents for the recovery of RUC-related fuel costs other than those specifically discussed in paragraph (1) or (2) above must request to have such documents approved by the ERCOT Board during an Executive Session at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the ERCOT Board.  If the ERCOT Board approves the inclusion of such documentation as proof of fuel purchases, the QSE must file an NPRR in accordance with Section 21, Revision Request Process, to add this category of documentation to the process for approval of Switchable Generation Make-Whole Payments.