3.14.1	Reliability Must Run
(1)	RMR Service is the use by ERCOT, under contracts with Resource Entities, of capacity and energy from Generation Resources that otherwise would not operate and that are necessary to provide voltage support, stability or management of localized transmission constraints under applicable reliability criteria, where market solutions do not exist.
(a)	Upon receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) from a Resource Entity as described in Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, ERCOT may begin procurement of RMR Service under this Section.  
(b)	Before entering into an RMR Agreement, ERCOT shall assess alternatives to the proposed RMR Agreement.  ERCOT shall evaluate and present in a written report posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the information in items (i) through (iv) below.  ERCOT is not limited in the number of additional scenarios it chooses to evaluate.  The written report shall include an explanation as to why the items below are insufficient, either alone or in combination, to fill the requirement that will be met by the potential RMR Unit.  The report shall be posted in the time frame required under paragraph (5) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process.  The list of alternatives ERCOT must consider includes (as reasonable for each type of reliability concern identified):
(i)	Re-dispatch/reconfiguration through operator instruction;
(ii)	Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and Remedial Action Plans (RAPs);
(iii)	Remedial Action Schemes (RASs) initiated on unit trips or Transmission Facilities’ Outages; and
(iv)	Any other operational alternatives deemed viable by ERCOT.
(c)	ERCOT shall minimize the use of RMR Units as much as practicable subject to the other provisions of these Protocols.  ERCOT may Dispatch an RMR Unit at any time for ERCOT System security.    
(d)	Each RMR Unit must meet technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(e)	ERCOT may execute RMR Agreements for no less than one month and no more than one year, with one exception.  ERCOT may execute an RMR Agreement for a term longer than 12 months if the Resource Entity must make a significant capital expenditure to meet environmental regulations or to ensure availability to continue operating the RMR Unit so as to make an RMR Agreement in excess of 12 months appropriate, in ERCOT’s opinion.  The term of a multi-year RMR Agreement must take into account the appropriate RMR exit strategy discussed in Section 3.14.1.4, Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement.  In the event ERCOT chooses to contract for an RMR Unit for longer than one year, ERCOT shall annually re-evaluate the need for the RMR Unit under the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) above.  If ERCOT determines the RMR Unit is no longer needed, ERCOT shall enter into exit negotiations with the contract signatories to attempt to exit the contract early.  However, ERCOT shall not enter into such negotiations until a Market Notice is issued providing the anticipated RMR exit time frame.  The RMR standard Agreement is included in Section 22, Attachment B, Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement.  ERCOT shall post each RMR Agreement in its entirety, including amendments or modifications thereto, within five Business Days of execution on the MIS Secure Area.
(f)	A Generation Resource is eligible for RMR status based on criteria established by ERCOT indicating its operation is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability according to the Operating Guides.  A combined-cycle generation Facility must be treated as a single unit for RMR purposes unless the combustion turbine and the steam turbine can operate separately.  If the steam turbine and combustion turbine can operate separately, and the steam turbine is powered by waste heat from more than one combustion turbine, the combustion turbine accepted for RMR Service and a proportionate part of the steam turbine must be treated as a single unit for RMR purposes.  If the combustion turbine accepted for RMR Service can operate separately from the steam turbine, and only the combustion turbine is accepted as an RMR Unit, the RMR energy price will be reduced by the value of the combustion turbine’s waste heat calculated at the Fuel Index Price (FIP), except when the steam turbine is Off-Line.  ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area the criteria upon which it evaluates whether an RMR Unit meets the test of operational necessity to support ERCOT System reliability within five Business Days of change and shall issue a Market Notice stating the determination is available.  This includes the case where a unit previously identified by ERCOT as potentially needed for RMR Service is no longer needed regardless of whether an RMR Agreement was ever signed.  
[NPRR1183:  Replace paragraph (f) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(f)	A Generation Resource is eligible for RMR status based on criteria established by ERCOT indicating its operation is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability according to the Operating Guides.  A combined-cycle generation Facility must be treated as a single unit for RMR purposes unless the combustion turbine and the steam turbine can operate separately.  If the steam turbine and combustion turbine can operate separately, and the steam turbine is powered by waste heat from more than one combustion turbine, the combustion turbine accepted for RMR Service and a proportionate part of the steam turbine must be treated as a single unit for RMR purposes.  If the combustion turbine accepted for RMR Service can operate separately from the steam turbine, and only the combustion turbine is accepted as an RMR Unit, the RMR energy price will be reduced by the value of the combustion turbine’s waste heat calculated at the Fuel Index Price (FIP), except when the steam turbine is Off-Line.
(g)	A Resource Entity cannot be compelled to enter into an RMR Agreement.  A Resource Entity that owns or controls a Generation Resource that is uneconomic to remain in service can voluntarily petition ERCOT for contracted RMR status by following the process in this subsection.  ERCOT shall determine whether the Generation Resource is necessary for system reliability based on the criteria set forth in this Section.
(h)	ERCOT must contract for the entire capacity of each RMR Unit.
(i)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area all information relative to the use of RMR Units including energy deployed monthly.
(j)	The Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit may not use the RMR Unit for:
(i)	Participating in the bilateral energy market;
(ii)	Self-providing of energy except for plant auxiliary Load obligations under the RMR Agreement; and
(iii)	Providing of Ancillary Service to any Entity.
(k)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on the need for an RMR Unit prior to entering negotiations for the RMR Unit.  Such Market Notice shall include the link to the ERCOT final RMR evaluation, the Resource name and unit code, the name of the Resource Entity, the name of the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for the Resource, the Resource MW rating by Season, and potential duration of the RMR Agreement, including anticipated start and end dates.
(l)	ERCOT shall, through the issuance of Market Notices, provide the same information, contemporaneously, about the need for, or elimination of an RMR Unit to all registered Market Participants, including QSEs and Resource Entities with RMR Units.
3.14.1.1	Notification of Suspension of Operations
(1)	Except for the occurrence of a Forced Outage, a Resource Entity must notify ERCOT in writing no less than 150 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to cease or suspend operation of a Generation Resource for a period of greater than 180 days.  If a Generation Resource is to be mothballed on a seasonal basis, the Resource Entity must notify ERCOT in writing no less than 90 days prior to the suspension date and identify its Seasonal Operation Period.  
(2)	The Resource Entity shall submit a completed Part I and Part II of the NSO (found in Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations).  The Resource Entity may also complete Part III of the NSO and submit it along with Parts I and II, or may wait to submit Part III up to ten days after ERCOT makes a determination that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency for which the Generation Resource has a material impact.  Part I of the NSO must include the attestation of an officer of the Resource Entity that the Generation Resource is uneconomic to remain in service as currently designated and will be unavailable for Dispatch by ERCOT for a period specified in the NSO.  
(3)	A Resource Entity ceasing or suspending operations as a result of a Forced Outage lasting greater than 180 days shall notify ERCOT as soon as practicable by submitting an NSO.  If an NSO is submitted for a Generation Resource that is suspending operations for greater than 180 days due to a Forced Outage but is not indefinitely or permanently ceasing operations, then:
(a)	The Generation Resource will not be evaluated for RMR status;  
(b)	The NSO will not be posted on the MIS, except that information contained in the NSO may be included in reports in accordance with Section 3.2.6.2.2, Total Capacity Estimate; and
[NPRR1183:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	The NSO will not be posted on the ERCOT website, except that information contained in the NSO may be included in reports in accordance with Section 3.2.6.2.2, Total Capacity Estimate; and
(c)	ERCOT will not issue a Market Notice.
(4)	At least 60 days before the expiration of an existing RMR Agreement, the Resource Entity may apply to renew the RMR Agreement by submitting a new NSO (including both Part I and Part II).  Upon receipt of such a renewal request, ERCOT shall update and post to the MIS Secure Area studies as set forth in Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, within 15 Business Days. 
3.14.1.2	ERCOT Evaluation Process
(1)	Except as provided in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, upon receipt of an NSO under Section 3.14.1.1 ERCOT shall post the NSO on the MIS Secure Area and shall post all existing relevant studies and data and provide a Market Notice of the NSO and posting of the studies and data.
[NPRR1183:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Except as provided in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, upon receipt of an NSO under Section 3.14.1.1 ERCOT shall post the NSO on the ERCOT website and shall post on the MIS Secure Area all existing relevant studies and data and provide a Market Notice of the NSO and posting of the studies and data.
(2)	Within 21 days after receiving the NSO described in paragraph (1) above, unless otherwise notified by ERCOT that a shorter comment period is required, Market Participants may submit comments to ERCOT on whether the Generation Resource(s) referenced in the NSO is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability or should qualify for a multi-year RMR Agreement.  ERCOT shall consider and post all submitted comments on the MIS Secure Area.
(3)	ERCOT shall conduct a reliability analysis of the need for any Generation Resource(s) with a summer Seasonal net max sustainable rating greater than or equal to 20 MW to support ERCOT System reliability.  For Generation Resource(s) with a summer Seasonal net max sustainable rating less than 20 MW, ERCOT may conduct a reliability analysis if deemed appropriate by ERCOT following consultation with affected Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)).
(a)	ERCOT shall use a Load forecast consistent with current Regional Transmission Plan assumptions and methodologies for the appropriate season(s).  If additional new Generation Resources meet the criteria in Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, ERCOT shall include those additional Generation Resources with the appropriate seasonal ratings.  
(b)	If the NSO indicates that the Generation Resource(s) will decommission or suspend operation, or in the case of a Forced Outage, has permanently ceased operation, ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may perform transmission reliability analysis over a planning horizon as defined by the available base cases but not to exceed two years.
(c)	For purposes of the reliability analysis, ERCOT shall use the following criteria to identify a performance deficiency that is materially impacted by the Generation Resource:
(i)	Without the Generation Resource, there are one or more Transmission Facilities loaded above their Normal Rating under pre-contingency conditions.
(ii)	Without the Generation Resource, there is any instability or cascading for any of the following conditions:
(A)	Pre-contingency;
(B)	Normal system conditions followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or flexible alternating current transmission system (FACTS) device;
(C)	Unavailability of a generating unit, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device; or
(D)	Unavailability of a 345/138 kV transformer, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device.
(iii)	Without the Generation Resource, there are one or more Transmission Facilities loaded above 110% of the Emergency Rating under normal system conditions followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device.
(iv)	For paragraphs (i) through (iii) above, the Generation Resource will only be deemed to have a material impact on a performance deficiency that is caused by a thermal overload(s) if the Generation Resource has a more than 2% unloading Shift Factor on the Transmission Facility(s) that is overloaded and more than 5% unloading impact on the Transmission Facility(s) that is overloaded.  For purposes herein, an unloading impact is a measure of a reduction in flow on a Transmission Facility as a percent of its Rating due to a unit injection of power from the Generation Resource.
(v)	ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, deviate from the above criteria in order to maintain ERCOT System reliability.  However, ERCOT shall present its reasons for deviating from the above criteria to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and ERCOT Board.
(d)	ERCOT, in consultation with affected TSP(s), may rely upon the results of past planning studies to determine if the Generation Resource is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability.  The past planning studies must have used the same or more restrictive reliability criteria than the criteria described in paragraph (c) above.
(e)	Additionally, ERCOT shall conduct any other analysis (e.g., operations studies) as required and shall post all study data and results and all analyses and its determination on the MIS Secure Area and issue a Market Notice of its determination.
(4)	Within 30 days after receiving the NSO, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice indicating the status of the reliability analysis referenced in paragraph (3) above.  The Market Notice will indicate one of the following:
(a)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the Generation Resource is not required to support ERCOT System reliability;
(b)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the analysis identifies a performance deficiency for which the Generation Resource has a material impact; or
(c)	ERCOT has not completed its reliability analysis and will need additional time to complete the assessment. 
(5)	Within 60 days after receiving Part I and Part II of the NSO, ERCOT shall complete its reliability analysis described in paragraph (3) above and shall issue a Market Notice describing the results of its reliability analysis if the results were not provided in the Market Notice issued under paragraph (4) above.  If ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource is not needed to support ERCOT System reliability, then the Generation Resource may cease or suspend operations according to the schedule in its NSO, unless ERCOT in its sole discretion permits the Generation Resource to suspend operations at an earlier date, and ERCOT shall note this in the Market Notice.
(6)	Within ten days after a determination by ERCOT that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency on which the Generation Resource has a material impact, as described in this Section, ERCOT shall issue a “Request for Proposal” (RFP) for Must-Run Alternatives (MRAs).  ERCOT shall include in the RFP reasonably available information that would enable potential MRAs to assess the feasibility of submitting a proposal to provide a more costeffective alternative to the Generation Resource, including any known minimum technical requirements and/or operational characteristics required to eliminate the identified performance deficiency.  The MRA RFP shall specify the expected number of hours that an MRA would be needed during the contract period, and the hours of the day, by season, that the MRA would be required to be available.  ERCOT shall establish an RFP response schedule such that responses can be evaluated prior to 150 days after submittal of the NSO.
(7)	Within ten days after a determination by ERCOT that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency on which the Generation Resource has a material impact, as described in this Section, the Resource Entity shall, if it has not already done so, complete and submit to ERCOT Part III of the NSO (Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations).  ERCOT shall post the Part III information on the MIS Secure Area.  Concurrently, the Generation Resource shall submit an initial estimated budget used in the calculation of the proposed Standby Cost and RMR fuel adder, prepared in accordance with Section 3.14.1.11, Budgeting Eligible Costs, and Section 3.14.1.20, Budgeting Fuel Costs, to ERCOT.  On or before the 11th day after the determination or the receipt of Part III of the NSO, whichever comes first, ERCOT and the Resource Entity shall begin good faith negotiations on an RMR Agreement.  These negotiations shall include the budgeting process for Eligible Costs and for fuel costs as detailed in Section 3.14.1.11 and Section 3.14.1.20.
[NPRR1183:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	Within ten days after a determination by ERCOT that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency on which the Generation Resource has a material impact, as described in this Section, the Resource Entity shall, if it has not already done so, complete and submit to ERCOT Part III of the NSO (Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations).  ERCOT shall post the Part III information on the ERCOT website.  Concurrently, the Generation Resource shall submit an initial estimated budget used in the calculation of the proposed Standby Cost and RMR fuel adder, prepared in accordance with Section 3.14.1.11, Budgeting Eligible Costs, and Section 3.14.1.20, Budgeting Fuel Costs, to ERCOT.  On or before the 11th day after the determination or the receipt of Part III of the NSO, whichever comes first, ERCOT and the Resource Entity shall begin good faith negotiations on an RMR Agreement.  These negotiations shall include the budgeting process for Eligible Costs and for fuel costs as detailed in Section 3.14.1.11 and Section 3.14.1.20.
(8)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on the status of the RMR Unit or MRA, including the start date, duration of the RMR or MRA Agreement, the Standby Cost ($/Hour) as applicable, and the amount of MW under contract, within 24 hours of signing an RMR or MRA Agreement with a Resource Entity.
(9)	Except in cases where the Generation Resource is to be mothballed on a seasonal basis, if, after 150 days following ERCOT’s receipt of Part I and Part II of the NSO, ERCOT has neither notified the Resource Entity that the continued operation of the Generation Resource is not required nor obtained ERCOT Board approval to enter into an RMR or MRA Agreement, then the Resource Entity may file a complaint with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) under subsection (e)(1) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502, Pricing Safeguards in Markets Operated by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas.  If the Generation Resource is to be mothballed on a seasonal basis, then the Resource Entity may file such a complaint with the PUCT under subsection (e)(1) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502 if ERCOT has neither notified the Resource Entity that the continued operation of the Generation Resource is not required nor obtained ERCOT Board approval to enter into an RMR Agreement within 90 days following ERCOT’s receipt of Part I and Part II of the NSO.
(10)	If the ERCOT Board approves entering into an RMR Agreement but ERCOT and the Resource Entity have not both executed the RMR Agreement by the date on which the Resource Entity intends to cease or suspend operation of the Generation Resource, then the Resource Entity shall maintain that Generation Resource(s) so that it is available for Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) commitment until no longer required to do so under subsection (e)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502.  This paragraph does not apply to a Generation Resource that suspended operations due to a Forced Outage.
3.14.1.2.1	ERCOT Evaluation of Seasonal Mothball Status
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate requests to place Generation Resources on a seasonal mothball status pursuant to the guidelines provided in Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, except as stated below.
(2)	Within 30 days after receiving the NSO described in Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice indicating the status of the reliability analysis described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.2.  The Market Notice will indicate one of the following:  
(a)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the Generation Resource is not required to support ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Generation Resource would be unavailable;
(b)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the analysis identifies a performance deficiency for which the Generation Resource has a material impact during the portion of the year when the Generation Resource would be unavailable; or
(c)	ERCOT has not completed its reliability analysis and will need additional time to complete the assessment.   
(3)	Within 60 days after receiving the NSO ERCOT shall complete its reliability analysis described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.2 and, if it has not already done so, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice stating whether the Generation Resource is required to support ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Generation Resource would be unavailable.
3.14.1.3	ERCOT Board Approval of RMR and MRA Agreements
(1)	If ERCOT determines that an RMR or MRA Agreement is a cost-effective solution to remedy a performance deficiency for which the suspending Generation Resource has a material impact as described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, or if ERCOT has identified such a performance deficiency but has determined that entering into an RMR or MRA Agreement is not a cost-effective solution to that performance deficiency, then ERCOT shall present this finding to the ERCOT Board for approval.  In seeking such approval, ERCOT shall stipulate to the ERCOT Board that:
(a)	The Resource Entity provided a complete and timely NSO including a sworn attestation supporting its claim of pending Generation Resource closure;
(b)	ERCOT received all of the data necessary to evaluate the need for and provisions of the RMR or MRA Agreement, and that information was posted on the MIS Secure Area by ERCOT as it became available to ERCOT;
(c)	When executed, the signed RMR or MRA Agreement will comply with the ERCOT Protocols and be posted on the MIS Secure Area;
(d)	ERCOT evaluated:
(i)	The reasonable alternatives to a specific RMR Agreement as set forth in Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, and compared the alternatives against the feasibility, cost and reliability impacts of the signed RMR Agreement;
(ii)	The timeframe in which ERCOT expects each unit to be needed for reliability; and
(iii)	The specific type and scope of reliability concerns identified for each RMR Unit or MRA as applicable.
(2)	ERCOT shall execute the RMR or MRA Agreement as soon as feasible after receiving ERCOT Board approval to do so.
(3)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area, as they become available, unit-specific studies, reports, and data, by which ERCOT justified entering into the RMR or MRA Agreement.
3.14.1.4	Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement
(1)	No later than 90 days after the execution of an RMR Agreement, ERCOT shall report to the Board and post on the MIS Secure Area a list of feasible alternatives that may, at a future time, be more cost-effective than the continued renewal of the existing RMR Agreement.  Through the ERCOT System planning process, ERCOT shall develop a list of potential alternatives to the service provided by the RMR Unit.  At a minimum, the list of potential alternatives that ERCOT must consider include, building new or expanding existing Transmission Facilities, installing voltage control devices, soliciting or buying by auction interruptible Load from Retail Electric Providers (REPs), or extending the existing RMR Agreement on an annual basis.  If a cost-effective alternative to the service provided by the RMR Unit is identified, ERCOT shall provide a proposed timeline to study and/or implement the alternative.
3.14.1.5	Evaluation of Alternatives
(1)	In evaluating responses to the RFP for MRAs, ERCOT shall not consider any response that, in ERCOT’s sole opinion, does not facially demonstrate that the proposed MRA meets the eligibility requirements specified in Section 3.14.4.1, Overview and Description of MRAs, and the availability criteria and other conditions specified in the RFP for MRAs.
(2)	ERCOT shall consider any of the following options to resolve an identified performance deficiency:
(a)	The Generation Resource proposed for suspension of operations;
(b)	All acceptable MRA proposals; and
(c)	Any transmission upgrades that can be implemented prior to the time period for which the performance deficiency has been identified.
(3)	ERCOT staff shall select the option or combination of options, if any, that most cost-effectively address the performance deficiency, as long as the cost of the selected options is justified given the possible impact to Customers due to the performance deficiency.  If ERCOT determines that no option cost-effectively resolves the performance deficiency, then ERCOT shall not select any option.  In selecting the most cost-effective option, ERCOT will consider the following factors:
(a)	The degree to which the option addresses the identified performance deficiency;
(b)	The total expected cost of each option; 
(c)	Expected unit performance of the Generation Resource proposed for suspension of operations, including start-up time, minimum run-time, minimum down-time, and historical unit outage data;
(d)	Operational limitations of proposed MRAs, including start-up times, minimum run-times, ramp periods, and return-to-service times;
(e)	Other operational constraints or operational benefits of the proposed option; and
(f)	Any other factors which ERCOT determines are relevant to the evaluation, and for which ERCOT can develop quantifiable criteria with which to evaluate all proposed options. 
(4)	In evaluating the expected impact to Customers due to the performance deficiency, ERCOT shall consider the following factors:
      (a)	Expected amount of Customer Demand affected (MWh);
(b)	Expected number of hours during which Customers will be affected;
(c)	Number of Customers affected;
(d)	Possible additional Customer impacts due to unforeseen conditions, such as Generation Resource unavailability, transmission circuit Outages, or Load variation due to extreme weather; and
(e)	Potential economic impact to Customers.
(5)	ERCOT staff shall recommend the selected option or options to the ERCOT Board of Directors for approval, or shall recommend that the ERCOT Board of Directors decline to accept any option, if no eligible, cost-effective option has been identified.  ERCOT staff shall provide sufficient information to justify its recommendation.  The ERCOT Board of Directors may approve or reject the proposed recommendation, or may direct ERCOT staff to pursue an agreement to procure one or more options not proposed by ERCOT staff.
3.14.1.6	Transmission System Upgrades Associated with an RMR and/or MRA Exit Strategy
(1)	This Section applies only to RMR exit strategies corresponding to specific RMR or MRA Agreements that have not been terminated.
(a)	ERCOT and the TSP(s) responsible for constructing any upgrades to the Transmission Facilities that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall coordinate construction clearances necessary to allow timely completion of all planned Transmission Facilities upgrades.
(b)	The TSP(s) responsible for constructing upgrades to the Transmission Facilities that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall establish and send to ERCOT estimated Outage information, including completion dates and associated model information to ERCOT per Section 3.1.4, Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facilities Outages.  For purposes of this Section, a Transmission Facility upgrade will be considered initiated upon the TSP authorizing any expenditures on the upgrade including, but not limited to, material procurement, right-of-way acquisition, and regulatory approvals. 
(c)	Upon initiation of the project, the TSP(s) responsible for constructing upgrades relating to the Transmission Facilities that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall provide to ERCOT monthly updates of the project’s status, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date. ERCOT shall report this data through the MIS as described in Section 12.2, ERCOT Responsibilities. Within 60 days of the completion date shown in the Notice provided per Section 3.1.4, for the Transmission Facilities upgrades, the TSP shall coordinate more timely updates if the timeline changes significantly.  
(d)	Within ten Business Days after completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrades that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy, ERCOT shall publish a Market Notice of such completion and the effective date of termination of the associated RMR or MRA Agreement.
3.14.1.7	RMR or MRA Contract Termination
(1)	This Section applies only to RMR exit strategies corresponding to specific RMR or MRA Agreements that have not been terminated.
(2)	Once a suitable RMR or MRA exit strategy has been developed as defined in Section 3.14.1.4, Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement, and the strategy has been approved by the ERCOT Board and the affected TSP(s), the TSP(s) responsible for the Transmission Facilities upgrades, when requested by ERCOT, shall submit to ERCOT:
(a)	A preliminary construction outage schedule necessary to complete the Transmission Facilities upgrades.  Submissions, changes, approvals, rejections, and withdrawals regarding the preliminary construction outage schedule shall be processed through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler on the ERCOT MIS.  Such construction outage schedule shall be updated monthly; or
(b)	A Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application timeline for projects requiring such PUCT certification.  Once a CCN has been granted by the PUCT, the TSP(s) shall be required to meet the requirements in item (a) above.
(3)	ERCOT shall review and approve or reject each construction outage schedule as provided in accordance with procedures developed by ERCOT in compliance with Section 3.1, Outage Coordination. 
(4)	The TSP(s) responsible for the Transmission Facilities upgrades that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall provide to ERCOT a project status and an estimated project completion date within five Business Days of ERCOT’s request. 
(5)	If ERCOT determines that a mutually agreeable preliminary construction outage schedule can be accommodated during the fall, winter, or spring, ERCOT and the TSP shall collaborate to determine if the 90 day termination notice for the RMR and/or MRA can be issued as soon after the summer load Season of the preceding year as possible and publish a Market Notice of these terminations.  ERCOT and the TSP may give consideration to the risk of the decision to terminate the RMR and/or MRA Agreement and any options, such as RAPs and/or Mitigation Plans that could be used to mitigate transmission construction delays.
3.14.1.8	RMR and/or MRA Contract Extension
(1)	This Section applies only to RMR exit strategies corresponding to specific RMR or MRA Agreements that have not been terminated.
(a)	Forty-five days prior to the termination date of an existing RMR or MRA Agreement, pursuant to the 90-day termination notice as described in paragraph A(2) of Section 3, Term and Termination, of Section 22, Attachment B, Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement, ERCOT shall assess the likelihood of completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade project(s) or other exit strategies necessary to allow termination of an existing RMR or MRA Agreement based on the updates of project status provided by the TSP(s).  If ERCOT determines that a delay in the termination date of the existing RMR or MRA Agreement is necessary to allow completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade(s), it shall provide written Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA of its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement no later than 30 days prior to the planned termination date.  Within 24 hours of ERCOT providing this Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement.  The Market Notice must contain the name and seasonal MW ratings of the RMR Unit or MRA and the expected duration of the contract extension, including the expected termination date.  ERCOT shall notify the ERCOT Board of the extension at the ERCOT Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
(b)	Forty-five days prior to the expiration date of an existing RMR or MRA Agreement for which the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA has applied for renewal, ERCOT shall assess the likelihood of completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade project(s) necessary to eliminate the reliability need for a Resource with an existing RMR or MRA Agreement based on the updates of project status provided by the TSP(s).  If ERCOT determines that an extension of the existing RMR or MRA Agreement of no more than 90 days would allow completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade(s), it shall provide written Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA of its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement no later than 30 days prior to the planned expiration date.  Within 24 hours of ERCOT providing this Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement.  The Market Notice must contain the name and seasonal MW ratings of the RMR Unit or MRA and the expected duration of the contract extension, including the expected termination date.  ERCOT shall notify the ERCOT Board of the extension at the ERCOT Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
(c)	ERCOT may extend the existing RMR or MRA Agreement as necessary to allow completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade(s), but in no event shall the extension last more than 90 days from the termination or expiration date of the existing RMR or MRA Agreement. 
(d)	Forty-five days prior to the end of the period for which the existing RMR or MRA Agreement has been extended, ERCOT shall assess whether the transmission upgrades are likely to be completed.  If ERCOT determines that the upgrades are not likely to be completed, ERCOT shall enter into negotiations with the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA to negotiate a new RMR or MRA Agreement to allow completion of the planned transmission upgrades.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on or before the date that extension negotiations begin with the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA.  The Market Notice must contain the name and seasonal MW ratings of the RMR Unit or MRA and the expected duration of the contract extension, including the expected termination date.  Additionally, the Market Notice must contain a description of the exit strategy and the status of progress of exit strategy projects.  ERCOT shall notify the ERCOT Board of the extension at the ERCOT Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
3.14.1.9	Generation Resource Status Updates
(1)	By April 1st and October 1st of each year and when material changes occur, every Resource Entity that owns or controls a Mothballed Generation Resource or an RMR Unit shall report to ERCOT, on a unit-specific basis, the estimated lead time required for each Resource to be capable of returning to service and, in percentage terms, report probable generation capacity from each Resource that the Resource Entity expects to return to service in each Season of each of the next ten years.
(2)	For modeling purposes, ERCOT and TSPs shall rely on the most recent submittal of the following two Notifications with respect to an RMR Unit, Mothballed Generation Resource or Decommissioned Generation Resource: Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations, or Section 22, Attachment H, Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.  Except in the case of an NSO submitted for a Generation Resource temporarily suspending operation due to a Forced Outage, ERCOT shall post each submitted NSO and Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation to the MIS Secure Area and issue a Market Notice notifying Market Participants of the posting as soon as practicable, but no later than five Business Days after receipt.
[NPRR1183:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	For modeling purposes, ERCOT and TSPs shall rely on the most recent submittal of the following two Notifications with respect to an RMR Unit, Mothballed Generation Resource or Decommissioned Generation Resource: Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations, or Section 22, Attachment H, Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.  Except in the case of an NSO submitted for a Generation Resource temporarily suspending operation due to a Forced Outage, ERCOT shall post each submitted NSO and Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation to the ERCOT website and issue a Market Notice notifying Market Participants of the posting as soon as practicable, but no later than five Business Days after receipt.
(3)	A Mothballed Generation Resource that is not mothballed indefinitely shall remain modeled in all ERCOT systems at all times, (i.e., will not be flagged as “mothballed” in ERCOT’s models) and, when it is not available, the Resource Entity shall designate the Generation Resource as on Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler.
(4)	Except for Mothballed Generation Resources that operate under a Seasonal Operation Period, a Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 30 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to return a Mothballed Generation Resource to service by completing a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.  
(5)	A Resource Entity must submit a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation no later than 60 days prior to the conclusion of an RMR Agreement.
(6)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to begin its Seasonal Operation Period if the first date of operation is prior to the date designated by the Resource Entity in its NSO.  A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the end date designated by the Resource Entity in its NSO if the Resource Entity intends to suspend operation later than that date.  Notifications under this Section shall be provided by the Resource Entity by completing a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).
(7)	Once the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT that a Mothballed Generation Resource is operating under a Seasonal Operation Period, the Resource Entity does not need to annually notify ERCOT of such status.
(8)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to return the Mothballed Generation Resource to year-round operation by completing a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).  
(9)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource that is not currently mothballed indefinitely must notify ERCOT in writing, by completing an NSO (Section 22, Attachment E), no less than 150 days before the date on which the Mothballed Generation Resource is to be suspended indefinitely or retired and decommissioned.
(10)	ERCOT may request that a Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operation Period be available for operation earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th of any given calendar year.  If ERCOT identifies a specific Resource Entity or QSE with which it will discuss such a request in an attempt to reach a mutually agreeable resolution, ERCOT shall issue a Notice as soon as practicable.  The Notice shall include the Resource name and, as applicable, the Resource mnemonic, the Resource MW rating by Season, and the potential duration of the extended operation period, including anticipated start and end dates.  If agreement is reached for the Mothballed Generation Resource to be available for operation earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th, the Resource Entity shall complete, within two Business Days, a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).
(11)	If ERCOT and the Resource Entity or QSE cannot reach a mutual agreement to make the Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operation Period available earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th of any given calendar year, then ERCOT may exercise its ability to bring the Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operating Period into the market under an RMR Agreement pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority.
(12)	ERCOT may evaluate, on an annual basis, Mothballed Generation Resources operating under a Seasonal Operation Period for RMR Service to address ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Mothballed Generation Resource would be unavailable. 
(13)	A Resource Entity that submitted an NSO as a result of a Forced Outage must notify ERCOT of its intent to return to service as soon as practicable by updating its status in the Outage Scheduler and Current Operating Plan (COP) and is not required to submit a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.
(14)	Before retiring and decommissioning either a Mothballed Generation Resource this is mothballed indefinitely or an RMR Unit that would otherwise become a Mothballed Generation Resource upon expiration of an RMR Agreement, a Resource Entity shall notify ERCOT of the expected retirement by submitting a completed Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).  The date of retirement indicated on the form shall comply with the requirements of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.      
(15)	If a Generation Resource is designated as decommissioned and retired pursuant to any of the above provisions, ERCOT will permanently remove the Generation Resource from the ERCOT registration systems in accordance with Section 3.10.1.  Except as provided in paragraph (16) below, if a Resource Entity decides to bring a Decommissioned Generation Resource back to service at a later date, it will be considered a new Resource and must follow the Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) process detailed in the Planning Guide.  If the Generation Resource is designated as mothballed, ERCOT and TSPs will consider the Generation Resource mothballed until the Resource Entity indicates a definitive return to service date pursuant to this Section.
(16)	A Resource Entity may bring a Decommissioned Generation Resource back to service without following the GIM process if the operating characteristics of the Resource are materially identical to the characteristics of the Resource as it existed prior to the date of decommissioning and the Resource Entity submits a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation (Section 22, Attachment H) within three years of the date the Generation Resource was removed from the ERCOT Network Operations Model.  The date of return proposed in the Notification must be a Network Operations Model load date that is no earlier than 45 days and no later than 180 days from the date of the Resource Entity’s Notification.  ERCOT may delay the Network Operations Model load date based on the timing of the Resource Entity’s submission of complete Resource registration data.  If the Resource Entity is not the Resource Entity that was associated with the Generation Resource at the time it was removed from the model, the Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT documentation that establishes the Resource Entity’s ownership of the Generation Resource.  
(a)	Notwithstanding the proposed date of return reflected in the Notification, as a condition for the synchronization of the Resource, ERCOT or the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may require any studies, testing, metering, or facility upgrades that ERCOT or the TDSP deem necessary for the reliable interconnection of the Resource, and ERCOT may require the Resource Entity to resolve any operational concern associated with the Resource.  The TDSP may require the Resource Entity to compensate the TDSP for any required studies or upgrades in the same manner contemplated for new Generation Resources by the ERCOT Planning Guide, the TDSP’s tariff, and the Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA).  
(b)	If ERCOT or the TDSP requires any studies, testing, metering or facility upgrades, or if ERCOT determines that operational concerns must be addressed, the Resource Entity must complete the commissioning process within 90 days of the date of synchronization, subject to any extension authorized by ERCOT for good cause.  
(c)	Any Generation Resource that returns to service pursuant to this paragraph is entitled to any exemption from ERCOT requirements that the Resource was entitled to at the time it was removed from the model if the exemption still exists under ERCOT rules.
3.14.1.10	Eligible Costs
(1)	“Eligible Costs” are costs that would be incurred by the RMR Unit owner to provide the RMR Service, excluding fuel costs or other costs the RMR Unit would have incurred anyway had it been mothballed or shut down.  
(a)	Examples of Eligible Costs include the following to the extent they each meet the standard for eligibility:
(i)	Direct labor to operate the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(ii)	Materials and supplies directly consumed or used in operation of the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(iii)	Services necessary to operate the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(iv)	Costs associated with emissions credits used as a direct result of operation of the RMR Unit under direction from ERCOT, or emissions reduction equipment as may be required according to terms of the RMR Agreement;
(v)	Costs associated with maintenance:
(A)	Due to required equipment maintenance;  
(B)	Due to replacement to alleviate unsafe operating conditions; 
(C)	Due to regulatory requirements, with compliance dates during the term of the RMR Agreement (any such compliance dates and requirements shall be explicitly defined in the RMR Agreement); or 
(D)	To ensure the ability to operate the RMR Unit consistent with Good Utility Practice;
(vi)	Reservation and transportation costs associated with firm fuel supplies not recovered under Section 6.6.6.2, RMR Payment for Energy;
(vii)	Property taxes and other taxes attributable to continuing to operate the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(viii)	General fund transfers or similar direct expenses incurred by a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) if it is required to pay a portion of its revenues to the municipality.  If the RMR payment to the MOU is subject to such a requirement, this expense is an incremental cost directly associated with the RMR Unit;
(ix)	Costs based on a long-term service agreement (LTSA), provided that:
(A)	The maintenance costs to be included are incremental and consistent with the definitions of the costs within the scope of the RMR Agreement and these Protocols;
(B)	The cost of each component is specifically set by the LTSA;
(C)	ERCOT must be able to verify the incremental or variable maintenance costs ($/MWh) or ($/start) described in the LTSA; and
(D)	The LTSA is in effect during the term of the RMR Agreement and available to ERCOT for review; and
(x)	Non-fuel costs to return a mothballed RMR Unit, or an RMR Unit that had ceased operations permanently due to a Forced Outage, to service provided that: 
(A)	The costs were incurred between the effective date of the RMR Agreement and the termination date of the RMR Agreement; and 
(B)	The costs do not include costs the RMR Unit owner would have incurred had the RMR Unit remained mothballed or under Forced Outage.
(b)	Examples of costs not included as Eligible Costs are:
(i)	Depreciation expense, return on equity, and debt and interest costs;
(ii)	Property taxes and other taxes not attributable to continuing to operate the RMR Unit;
(iii)	Income taxes of the RMR Unit owner or operator; 
(iv)	Labor and material costs associated with other, non-RMR Generation Resources at the same facility;
(v)	Cost of parts inventory not used by the RMR Unit during the term of the Agreement;
(vi)	Costs attributed to other Resources in the power generation station; and
(vii)	Any other costs the Resource Entity that owns the RMR Unit would have incurred even if the RMR Unit had been mothballed or shutdown.
3.14.1.11	Budgeting Eligible Costs
(1)	The owner of an RMR Unit shall provide a good faith preliminary budget, including detailed monthly estimates of its Eligible Costs to ERCOT, to support its calculation of the initial Standby Cost in Part III of the Notification of Suspension of Operations submitted to ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, in a format acceptable to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall review the budget and may reject any item it determines to be unreasonable.  The owner of the RMR Unit and ERCOT may mutually agree to modify the expected contract capacity and Target Availability of the RMR Unit as necessary to account for any budget item that is rejected.
(2)	As part of the MRA evaluation process, the QSE that represents the MRA must notify ERCOT if any contributed capital expenditures are required under the proposed MRA Agreement.  The QSE that represents the MRA shall provide an explanation and a good faith preliminary budget for the contributed capital expenditures in a format acceptable to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall review and may approve the budget to determine which costs would be considered contributed capital expenditures in accordance with Section 3.14.1.19, Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures.
(3)	ERCOT may retain a third party mutually agreeable to ERCOT and the owner of the RMR Unit to assist in the evaluation of a submitted budget, whether for initial or updated costs.  The cost of such a third party will be allocated pursuant to paragraph (2) of Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses. 
(4)	The Eligible Cost budgeting process is as follows:
(a)	The RMR Unit owner shall supply ERCOT a preliminary Eligible Cost budget for the expected RMR Agreement period starting with the anticipated effective date of the RMR Agreement.  
(b)	The preliminary Eligible Cost budget should be submitted in conjunction with Part III of the NSO, as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, and paragraph (6) of Section 3.14.1.2.  
(c)	The budget will include Eligible Costs categorized in terms of:
(i)	Base Cost of Operations, by month, which includes Eligible Costs that are independent of the levels of operation, Outages and non-Outage maintenance; 
(ii)	Outage Maintenance Cost, which includes Eligible Costs attributable to Planned or Maintenance Outages and/or inspections occurring during the term of the RMR Agreement, by month.  Maintenance alternatives available during any Planned or Maintenance Outage must be presented to ERCOT for determination of the alternative to be performed and paid for under the RMR Agreement.  The RMR Unit owner must present ERCOT with a budget for each option, benefits of each alternative, unit availability impact associated with not performing each alternative, and a recommendation to facilitate ERCOT’s selection process.  If no reasonable alternatives are available then the RMR Unit owner shall provide an affirmation to that effect; 
(iii)	Non-Outage Maintenance Cost, by month, which includes non-recurring Eligible Costs that are independent of a particular scheduled Outage.  Non-Outage maintenance alternatives available during any scheduled Outage must be presented to ERCOT for determination of the alternative to be performed and paid for under the RMR Agreement.  The RMR Unit owner must present ERCOT with a budget for each option, benefits of each alternative, unit availability impact associated with not performing each alternative, and a recommendation to facilitate ERCOT’s selection process.  If no reasonable alternatives are available then an affirmation by the RMR Unit owner to that effect must be included in the RMR Agreement; 
(iv)	For Resources without approved verifiable costs, the following data is required:
(A)	Variable Operations & Maintenance (O&M) costs ($/start), from start to Low Sustained Limit (LSL), for each start type:
(1)	Cold; 
(2)	Hot; and
(3)	Intermediate;
(B)	Operating variable O&M costs ($/MWh):
(1)	At LSL; and
(2)	Above LSL;
(C)	Average generation from breaker close to LSL (MWh), for each start type:
(1)	Cold; 
(2)	Hot; and
(3)	Intermediate;
(D)	Fuel consumption (MMBtu/start), for each start type:
(1)	Cold; 
(2)	Hot; and
(3)	Intermediate;
(E)	Startup Fuel Percentage from start to LSL, for each start type:
Fuel Type
Hot (%)
Intermediate (%)
Cold (%)
Gas
Fuel Oil
Solid Fuel
(F) 	Operating Fuel Percentage:
Fuel Type
At LSL
Above LSL
Gas
Fuel Oil
Solid Fuel
(G)	Input/output curve coefficients; 
(v)	Other budget items means Eligible Costs not clearly identifiable in the previous three categories including:
(A)	Environmental emission credit consumption (or purchase as explicitly defined under the RMR Agreement, to operate the unit) includes the opportunity cost for using emission credits through the combustion of fuel feedstock by the RMR Unit.  Costs must be based on verifiable market data as supplied by the RMR Unit owner; and 
(B)	“Compliance Costs,” which includes foreseeable costs to comply with regulations, Federal or state that have a compliance deadline that occurs during the term of the RMR Agreement.
(d)	Thirty days after receipt of the preliminary Eligible Costs budget, ERCOT shall notify the RMR Unit owner of its selections under the alternatives provided in the preliminary budget.  The RMR Unit owner and ERCOT shall set the Target Availability monthly values consistent with the options presented to and selected by during the budgeting process.  The Target Availability shall be mutually agreed by ERCOT and the RMR Unit owner by taking into account a negotiated amount of predicted Forced Outages, Planned Outages identified during the budgeting process, and any budget items rejected by ERCOT.
(e)	If applicable, the RMR Unit owner should provide a written description of the type of work needed for the Resource to achieve the operational conditions for the RMR Service, in accordance with the capacity and Target Availability requirements.  This should include:
(i)	A description of the equipment needed;
(ii)	An indication if the equipment is anticipated to be expensed or capitalized;
(iii)	The estimated life and depreciation schedule of each capitalized component;
(iv)	The estimated salvage value of the capitalized components;  
(v)	The estimated time to install each piece of equipment; and
(vi)	The expected time of completion of work needed to restore the Resource to operational status.
3.14.1.12	Calculation of the Initial Standby Cost 
(1)	The initial Standby Cost shall be calculated by dividing the total monthly approved budget cost over the term of the RMR Agreement by the total hours for the term of the RMR Agreement.
3.14.1.13	Updated Budgets During the Term of an RMR Agreement
(1)	Upon commencement of the RMR Agreement, based on the Agreement term, the RMR Unit owner shall identify planned equipment installations as anticipated to be expensed or capitalized and shall update the estimated salvage value of capitalized components.  The RMR Unit owner shall submit to ERCOT updated budget information every three months, in a format consistent with the preliminary budget, for the remainder of the term of the RMR Agreement.  ERCOT shall review updated budget information for reasonableness and may reject any item it determines to be unreasonable.  The owner of the RMR Unit and ERCOT may mutually agree to modify the contract capacity and Target Availability of the RMR Unit to account for any such budget item rejection.  
(2)	ERCOT will use approved updated budget information to update the total RMR costs expected to be incurred over the remaining term of the RMR Agreement.  If the total costs over the remaining term of the RMR Agreement change by more than 10% with respect to those costs anticipated for the same period in the most recently approved budget, the RMR Standby Cost will be recalculated.  The revised Standby Cost will be recalculated by dividing the remaining budgeted costs over the number of remaining hours for which the RMR Unit is under an RMR Agreement.
(3)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice describing the revised Standby Cost at least ten calendar days prior to the effective date of a change to the Standby Cost.  The effective date of a revised Standby Cost will always be on the first day of a calendar month.
3.14.1.14	Reporting Actual RMR Eligible Costs 
(1) 	The RMR Unit owner shall provide ERCOT with documentation supporting actual Eligible Costs on a monthly basis in a form and a level of detail acceptable to ERCOT for ERCOT to verify that all Eligible Costs are actual and appropriate.  Submitted actual Eligible Costs must be categorized consistently with budgeted Eligible Costs.  Actual cost data must be submitted on time by the Resource Entity for the RMR Unit and then verified by ERCOT so the actual cost data can be reflected in the Final or True-Up Settlement Statement. 
(2) 	To be considered timely for the final, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted by the 16th of the month following month ‘x’.  To be considered timely for the true-up, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted 60 days prior to the publishing date of the True-Up Settlement Statement for the first day in month ‘x’.  Any deviation in filing actual cost data in accordance with this calendar must be requested of ERCOT, by the QSE representing an RMR Unit.  Such request for deviation shall contain the reason for the inability to meet the calendar and an expected date that the cost data will be provided to ERCOT.  At its discretion ERCOT may choose to honor such a request.  No later than two Business Days following its decision, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice of any such request and its response thereto.  In the event, that actual cost data is not submitted  in accordance with the calendar or approved deviation for the true-up, then the cost for the portion of eligible cost that has not been submitted is deemed to be zero. 
3.14.1.15	Reporting Actual MRA Eligible Costs 
(1)	The QSE that represents the MRA that has received contributed capital expenditures shall provide ERCOT with evidence of the actual costs associated with the capital expenditures on a monthly basis in a level of detail sufficient for ERCOT to verify that all capital contributions costs are actual and appropriate.
3.14.1.16	Reconciliation of Actual Eligible Costs
(1)	ERCOT shall issue a miscellaneous Invoice to charge the QSE representing the RMR Unit for any identified over-payments for actual Eligible Costs.  Funds collected will be distributed in accordance with Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses.
3.14.1.17	Incentive Factor
(1)	Subject to the reductions described in paragraphs (2) and (3) below, the Incentive Factor for RMR Agreements is equal to 10% of the actual Eligible Costs, excluding fuel costs and reservation and transportation costs associated with firm fuel supplies as described in paragraph (1)(a)(vi) of Section 3.14.1.10, Eligible Costs.  The Incentive Factor for RMR Agreements is not applied to capital expenditures as described in Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, or to capital expenditures reclassified as an expense in accordance with paragraph (3)(d) of Section 3.14.1.19, Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures.  The Incentive Factor shall never be less than zero.
(2)	The Incentive Factor shall be reduced if the RMR Unit fails to perform to the contracted capacity during a Capacity Test as described in the RMR Agreement.  The reduction will be linear, with a 2% reduction in the Incentive Factor for every 1% of reduced Capacity.
(3)	The Incentive Factor shall be reduced if the “Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor” of the RMR Unit is less than the Target Availability (i.e. the “Actual Availability”, as defined below, is less than the Target Availability).  
(a)	The reduction will be linear; with a 2% reduction in the Incentive Factor payment for every 1% of the Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor less than the Target Availability stated in the RMR Agreement.  The RMR Unit’s Actual Availability shall be calculated on an hourly rolling six-month average basis. 
(b)	The calculation is made by dividing the total MW of available capacity per hour according to its final COP by the total MW of contracted capacity per hour for the previous 4380 hours.
(c)	For purposes of this calculation, any hour within the previous 4380-hour period that precedes the start date of the RMR Agreement is treated as if 100% of the capacity of the unit was available for the hour.
3.14.1.18	Major Equipment Modifications
(1)	During the term of an RMR Agreement, in the event that major equipment modifications are required in order for the RMR Unit to provide RMR Service (such as installation of environmental control equipment), ERCOT and the RMR Unit owner shall negotiate in good faith concerning changes to the terms of the RMR Agreement.
3.14.1.19	Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures
(1)	This Section applies to any RMR or MRA Agreement entered into by ERCOT and a Resource Entity or QSE on or after October 12, 2016.  
(2) 	For purposes of this Section, contributed capital expenditures are defined as expenditures that were made to ensure the availability of an RMR Unit or MRA in connection with an RMR or MRA Agreement, that were settled in accordance with the Settlement processes in the ERCOT Protocols, and that would ordinarily be capitalized under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or International Accounting Standards (IAS) assuming ongoing operation of the RMR Unit or MRA.  Consistent with the process described in Section 3.14.1.11, Budgeting Eligible Costs, ERCOT will identify contributed capital expenditure items included in each category of submitted Eligible Costs as defined in Section 3.14.1.10, Eligible Costs, or submitted with any MRA budgets.  
(3)	A QSE that has received payments from ERCOT for contributed capital expenditures pursuant to an RMR or MRA Agreement entered into on or after October 12, 2016 must refund to ERCOT the contributed capital expenditures as follows:
(a)	At the end of the RMR Agreement, if the Resource Entity chooses not to have the Generation Resource participate in energy or Ancillary Service markets, the QSE representing the Resource Entity shall repay, in a lump sum payment, the positive salvage value associated with the contributed capital expenditures, as estimated at the time of the RMR Agreement.
(b) 	At the end of the MRA Agreement, if the QSE that represents the MRA chooses not to have the MRA participate in energy or Ancillary Service markets, the QSE representing the MRA shall repay, in a lump sum payment, the positive salvage value associated with the contributed capital expenditures, as estimated at the time of the MRA Agreement.  In addition, the QSE that represents the MRA must repay, in a lump sum payment, the value of contributed capital expenditures in excess of the actual cost of the capitalized equipment.
(c)	If an RMR Unit or MRA participates in the energy or Ancillary Service markets at any time after the termination date of the RMR or MRA Agreement, the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA shall repay, in a lump sum payment, 100% of the remaining book value of the capitalized equipment and capitalized installation charges based on straight-line depreciation over the estimated life of the capitalized component(s) as of the termination date of the RMR or MRA Agreement in accordance with GAAP or IAS standards for electric utility equipment, plus 10% of the value of any accelerated tax depreciation associated with the capital contribution taken by the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA during the term of the RMR or MRA Agreement, less any remaining positive salvage value associated with the contributed capital expenditures that was previously repaid in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) above.  The estimated life shall be based on documentation provided by the manufacturer; or, if installing used equipment, the estimated life may be based on an approximation agreed to by the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA and ERCOT, but in no event shall the estimated life be less than the equipment life used for federal income tax purposes.  The value of the accelerated tax depreciation for each year shall be the difference between the straight line figure and the appropriate Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS) depreciation schedule for the equipment, multiplied by the statutory tax rate.  The calculation of the accelerated depreciation as described herein must be supported by an attestation executed by an officer or executive with the authority to bind the Resource Entity or the QSE representing the Resource Entity.    
(d)	If additional contributed capital expenditures are identified subsequent to execution and during the term of the RMR or MRA Agreement, the applicable repayment amounts as determined in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above will be modified accordingly.
(e)	The amount of contributed capital expenditures may be adjusted by ERCOT when early termination in accordance with the RMR Agreement results in a reclassification of capital expenditures to expenses in accordance with GAAP or IAS.
(f)	If the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA is required to pay a lump sum payment of contributed capital expenditures per paragraph (a), (b), or (c) above, then ERCOT will issue a Market Notice identifying the amount of the lump sum payment within five Business Days of termination of the RMR or MRA Agreement.  
(i)	ERCOT shall issue a miscellaneous Invoice charging the QSE for the applicable amounts under paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above.  ERCOT will issue a Market Notice after completion of the collection and disbursement of the repaid contributed capital expenditures.
(ii)	ERCOT shall distribute the repayment to QSEs representing Load per Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses.
3.14.1.20	Budgeting Fuel Costs
(1)	The RMR Unit owner shall supply ERCOT a preliminary monthly fuel cost budget for the anticipated term and effective date of the RMR Agreement.  The fuel cost budget must include information pertaining to the cost of the fuel feedstock, including where appropriate transportation costs and terms, as well as fuel storage costs and terms, and any other fuel contract provisions (e.g. “take or pay” provisions) that may impact the cost of all fuels anticipated to be used by the RMR Unit over the life of the RMR Agreement and must include fuel costs categorized in terms of: 
(a)	Primary fuel; and 
(b)	Secondary fuel.
(2)	The estimated fuel payments may include a fuel adder to better approximate expected fuel costs, which may be adjusted from time to time by mutual agreement of the RMR Unit owner and ERCOT.  The fuel adder shall represent the difference between the forecasted average fuel price and the forecasted average of the relevant index price over the RMR contract period.  The fuel adder must also include the forecasted cost of transporting and delivering fuel and fuel imbalance fees to the Resource.  The RMR Unit owner must provide to ERCOT supporting documentation indicating how the fuel adder was determined.
(3)	The RMR Unit owner shall provide good faith estimates of the RMR Unit input/output curve coefficients to ERCOT with its Notification of Suspension of Operations.  
(4)	Based on production figures provided to the RMR Unit owner by ERCOT, the RMR Unit owner shall also provide ERCOT fuel supply options available for the RMR Unit.  For each option, the RMR Unit owner shall detail the associated impacts on the fuel and non-fuel budgets and on the availability of the RMR Unit.  If no reasonable alternatives are available then an affirmation by the RMR Unit owner to that effect must be included in the RMR Agreement.  If there are available fuel options, then no less than 30 days after the receipt of the fuel supply options, ERCOT shall notify the RMR Unit owner of its fuel supply option selection.
3.14.1.21	Reporting Actual Eligible Fuel Costs
(1)	The RMR Unit owner shall provide ERCOT with actual fuel costs on a monthly basis for the RMR Unit in a level of detail sufficient for ERCOT to verify that all fuel costs are actual and appropriate.  ERCOT shall perform a true-up of the estimated fuel costs using the submitted and verified actual fuel costs for the RMR Unit.  Actual cost data must be submitted on time by the Resource Entity for the RMR Unit and then verified by ERCOT so the actual cost data can be reflected in the True-Up Settlement Statement.  To be considered timely for the final, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted by the 16th of the month following month ‘x.’  To be considered timely for the true-up, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted 60 days prior to the publishing date of the True-Up Settlement Statement for the first day in month ‘x.’  Any deviation in filing actual cost data in accordance with this calendar must be requested of ERCOT, by the QSE representing an RMR Unit.  Such request for deviation shall contain the reason for the inability to meet the calendar and an expected date that the cost data will be provided to ERCOT.  At its discretion ERCOT may choose to honor such a request.  No later than two Business Days following its decision, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice of any such request and its response thereto.  In the event that actual cost data is not submitted in accordance with the timeline or is not an approved deviation for the true-up, then the cost for the portion of Eligible Cost that has not been submitted is deemed to be zero.
(2)	Actual fuel costs must be appropriate actual costs attributable to ERCOT’s scheduling and/or deployment of the RMR Unit.  Actual fuel costs may include cost of fuel (including the cost of exceeding swing gas contract limits, additional gas demand costs set by fuel supply, or transportation contracts); demand fees, imbalance penalties, transportation charges, and cash out premiums. In addition, actual fuel costs may include costs incurred to:
(a)	Keep the boiler(s) warmed, if approved in advance by ERCOT; and 
(b)	Test the RMR Unit prior to or during the term of the RMR Agreement, if approved in advance by ERCOT.