3.14.2	Black Start
(1)	Each Generation Resource providing BSS must meet the requirements specified in North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards and the Operating Guides.
(2)	Each Generation Resource providing BSS must meet the technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards, and Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(3)	Bids for BSS are due on or before February 15th of each three-year period.  Bids must be evaluated based on evaluation criteria attached as an appendix to the request for bids and contracted by December 31st for the following three-year period.  ERCOT shall ensure BSSs are arranged, provided, and deployed as necessary to reenergize the ERCOT System following a Blackout or Partial Blackout.
(a)	Resources shall disclose any weather-related limitations that could affect the Resource’s ability to provide BSS using the form provided in Section 22, Attachment M, Generation Resource Disclosure Regarding Bids for Black Start Service, as part of a bid to provide BSS. 
(b)	BSS bids shall include the hourly stand-by price and the BSS Back-up Fuel costs where applicable.
(c)	When a Resource is selected to provide BSS, the Black Start Resource shall be required to complete all applicable testing requirements as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.5, System Black Start Capability Qualification and Testing.
(d)	ERCOT shall provide a list of all prospective Black Start Resources that responded to the RFP for BSS to the impacted TSPs no later than seven days after the date on which bids for BSS are due.  Any feedback from affected TSPs shall be limited to the identification of transmission constraints that may adversely impact the ability of the Black Start Resource to energize the “Next Start Resource” and shall be due to ERCOT by March 1st of that year.  ERCOT shall share the feedback with the QSE representing the prospective Black Start Resource as soon as practicable.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall have the option to provide a response to any feedback provided by an affected TSP.
(4)	ERCOT may schedule unannounced Black Start testing, to verify that BSS is operable as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.5.
(5)	QSEs representing Generation Resources contracting for BSSs shall participate in training and restoration drills coordinated by ERCOT.
(6)	ERCOT shall periodically determine and review the location and number of Black Start Resources required, as well as any special transmission or voice communication needs required.  ERCOT and providers of this service shall meet the requirements as specified in the Operating Guides and in NERC Reliability Standards.
(7)	A Resource Entity representing a Black Start Resource may request that an alternate Generation Resource which is connected to the same black start primary and secondary cranking path as the original Black Start Resource be substituted in place of the original Black Start Resource during the three-year term of an executed Standard Form Black Start Agreement (Section 22, Attachment D, Standard Form Black Start Agreement) if the alternate Generation Resource meets testing and verification under established qualification criteria to ensure BSS.
(a)	ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may reject a Resource Entity’s request for an alternate Generation Resource and will provide the Resource Entity an explanation of such rejection.  
(b)	If ERCOT accepts the alternative Generation Resource as the substituted Black Start Resource, such acceptance shall not affect the original terms, conditions and obligations of the Resource Entity under the Standard Form Black Start Agreement.  The Resource Entity shall submit to ERCOT an Amendment to Standard Form Black Start Agreement (Section 22, Attachment I, Amendment to Standard Form Black Start Agreement) after qualification criteria has been met.
(8)	For the purpose of the Black Start Hourly Standby Fee as described in Section 6.6.8.1, Black Start Hourly Standby Fee Payment, the BSS Availability Reduction Factor shall be determined by using the availability for the original Black Start Resource and any substituted Black Start Resource(s), as appropriate for the rolling 4380-hour period of the evaluation.
(9)	Each Generation Resource selected to provide BSS shall be prepared and able to provide BSS at any time as may be required by ERCOT, subject only to the limitations described in ERCOT Protocols or the Black Start Agreement.  
(10)	Each Generation Resource selected to provide BSS shall be able to utilize BSS Back-up Fuel for BSS and shall maintain a contracted amount of BSS Back-up Fuel to run the Black Start Resource for a minimum of 72 hours at its maximum output.  The Generation Resource shall maintain the contracted amount of BSS Back-up Fuel at all times during the duration of the BSS contract term unless performing a BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test or the Generation Resource is operating pursuant to a Black Start deployment event.  This requirement does not apply to Resources that do not rely on purchased fuel.  
(11)	A Black Start Resource may utilize the contracted amount of BSS Back-up Fuel outside of BSS if ERCOT determines it is necessary during an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event.
(12)	A Black Start Resource is not obligated to contract its full on site fuel storage capability for BSS Back-up Fuel.  On site backup fuel in excess of the contracted BSS Back-up Fuel amount may be used by the Generation Resource at the discretion of the Generation Resource and ERCOT shall not prevent the Black Start Resource from utilizing the excess fuel, nor shall the Black Start Resource be required to request permission from ERCOT to utilize fuel in excess of the contracted BSS Back-up Fuel amount.  
(13)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, waive the BSS Back-up Fuel requirement stated in this Section, in whole or in part, if ERCOT deems necessary in order to procure a sufficient number or preferred combination of Generation Resources to provide BSS.
(14)	A Resource Entity that submits a bid or is contracted to provide BSS or serve as an alternate to provide BSS with a Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR): 
(a)	Shall not nominate the SWGR to satisfy supply adequacy or capacity planning requirements in any Control Area other than the ERCOT Region during the term of the BSS contract; 
(b)	Shall submit a report to ERCOT in compliance with paragraph (2) of Section 16.5.4, Maintaining and Updating Resource Entity Information, indicating that the SWGR does not have any contractual requirement in a non-ERCOT Control Area during the term of the BSS contract; and 
(c)	Shall take any further action requested by ERCOT to ensure that ERCOT will be classified as the “Primary Party” for the SWGR under any agreement between ERCOT and another Control Area Operator (CAO) during the term of the BSS contract.    
(15)	If a Resource Entity with a SWGR is contracted to provide BSS or designated as an alternate to provide BSS, the Resource Entity shall have its Black Start plan procedures approved by ERCOT.  In the event of a Partial Blackout or Blackout of the ERCOT System, the Resource Entity with a SWGR shall immediately: 
(a)	Effectuate its Black Start plan procedures to be available to provide BSS; and  
(b)	Provide BSS as directed by ERCOT or the local Transmission Operator (TO).
(16)	Each Resource Entity shall identify in its Resources Registration data if its Resource is a Black Start Capable Resource and an Isochronous Control Capable Resource.
(17)	Each Resource Entity and each TSP shall identify in the Network Operations Model if a modeled breaker or switch it operates or directs the operation of has a Synchroscope and a Synchronism Check Relay associated with the breaker or switch.