3.14.3	Emergency Response Service
(1)	ERCOT shall procure and deploy ERS with the goal of promoting reliability prior to and during energy emergencies.
3.14.3.1	Emergency Response Service Procurement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue Requests for Proposals to procure ERS for each Standard Contract Term.  The ERS Standard Contract Terms are as follows:
(a)	December through March;
(b)	April and May;
(c)	June through September; and
(d) 	October and November.
(2)	ERCOT shall procure ERS from one or more of the four following ERS service types:
      (a)	Weather-Sensitive ERS-10
(b)	Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-10
(c)	Weather-Sensitive ERS-30
(d)	Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-30
(3)	ERS offers shall be submitted only by QSEs capable of receiving both Extensible Markup Language (XML) messaging and Verbal Dispatch Instructions (VDIs) on behalf of represented ERS Resources.   
(4)	Each site in an ERS Generator must have an interconnection agreement with its TDSP prior to submitting an ERS offer and must have exported energy to the ERCOT System prior to the offer due date.  An ERS Resource that cannot inject energy to the ERCOT System can only be offered as an ERS Load.
(5)	In order to qualify as weather-sensitive, an ERS Load must meet one of the following criteria:
(a)	The ERS Load must consist exclusively of residential sites; or 
(b)	The ERS Load must consist exclusively of non-residential sites and must qualify as weather-sensitive based on the accuracy of the regression baseline evaluation methodology as described in Section 8.1.3.1.1, Baselines for Emergency Response Service Loads, as an indicator of actual interval Load.
(i)	ERCOT shall establish minimum accuracy standards for qualification as an ERS Load under the regression baseline evaluation methodology.  
(ii)	An ERS Load must have at least nine months of interval meter data to qualify as weather-sensitive under the regression baseline evaluation methodology.
(iii)	ERCOT’s determination that an ERS Load qualifies as a weather-sensitive ERS Load is independent of ERCOT’s determination of which baseline methodologies may be appropriate for purposes of evaluating the ERS Load’s performance.
(c)	If a site with Distributed Renewable Generation (DRG) has been designated by the QSE to be evaluated by using its native load, the default baseline analysis shall be performed using the calculated native load.
(6)	QSEs representing ERS Resources may submit offers for one or more ERS Time Periods within an ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERS Time Periods shall be defined by ERCOT in the RFP for that ERS Standard Contract Term.  An ERS offer is specific to an ERS Time Period.  In submitting an offer, both the QSE and the ERS Resource are committing to provide ERS for that ERS Time Period if selected.
(7)	A QSE may submit separate offers for an ERS Resource to provide any or all of the four ERS service types during the same or different ERS Time Periods in the same ERS Standard Contract Term, but ERCOT shall only award offers for one service type for each ERS Resource.
(8)	The minimum capacity offer for an ERS Load on the weather-sensitive baseline is one half (0.5) MW; all other ERS capacity offers will have a minimum amount that may be offered of one-tenth (0.1) MW.  ERS Resources may be aggregated to reach this requirement.
(9)	Offers from ERS Generators must include self-serve capacity and injection capacity amounts greater than or equal to zero for each ERS Time Period offered.
(10)	ERCOT may establish an upper limit, in MWs, on the amount of ERS capacity it will procure for any ERS Time Period in any ERS Standard Contract Term.	
(11)	A QSE’s offer to provide ERS shall include: 
(a)	The name of the QSE representing the ERS Resource and the name of an individual authorized by the QSE to represent the QSE and its ERS Resource(s);
(b)	The name of an Entity that controls the ERS Resource, and an affirmation that the QSE has obtained written authorization from the Entity to submit ERS offers on its behalf and to represent the Entity in all matters before ERCOT concerning the Entity’s provision of ERS;
(c)	Any information or data specified by ERCOT, including access to historical meter data, and affirmation by the QSE that it has obtained written authorization from the controlling Entity of the ERS Resource for the QSE to obtain such data;
(d)	Affirmation that the controlling Entity of the ERS Resource has reviewed P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.507, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Emergency Response Service (ERS), these Protocols and Other Binding Documents relating to the provision of ERS, and has agreed to comply with and be bound by such provisions;
(e)	An agreement by the QSE to produce any written authorization or agreement between the QSE and any ERS Resource it represents, as described in this Section, upon request from ERCOT or the PUCT;
(f)	Affirmation that no offered capacity from any site in an ERS Resource has been or will be committed to provide any other product, service, or program during any of the hours in the ERS Time Period in the Standard Contract Term for which the offer is submitted.  Such prohibited products, services, or programs include, but are not limited to, Ancillary Services, Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), or TDSP standard offer programs.  As an exception to the foregoing, a QSE may offer a site to provide ERS for an ERS Time Period in the Standard Contract Term even if the QSE has an offer pending for that same site to serve as an MRA during that ERS Time Period and Standard Contract Term; however, if the site is selected to serve as an MRA it will not be permitted to serve as ERS during any ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Term in which it is obligated to serve as an MRA;
(g)	Affirmation that the QSE and the controlling Entity the ERS Resource are familiar with any applicable federal, state or local environmental regulations that apply to the use of any generator in the provision of ERS, and that the use of such generator(s) to provide of ERS would not violate those regulations.  This provision applies to both ERS Generators and to the use of backup generation by ERS Loads; and
(h)	Affirmation that each offered ERS Resource satisfies at least one of the conditions set forth in paragraph (9) of Section 3.6.1, Load Resource Participation, and that all of the ERS Resource’s offered Demand response capacity will be available if deployed by ERCOT during an emergency.
(12)	Upon request from a QSE, ERCOT shall provide the dates and times for any deployment events or tests of any ERS site during the previous three ERS Standard Contract Terms, provided that the QSE has obtained written authorization from the ERS site to obtain the information from ERCOT.  Such QSE requests shall include the following site-specific information: Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID), unique meter identifier (if applicable), or, if the site is in a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) area, site name and site address.
(13)	Sites associated with a Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) may not participate in ERS.  Offers for Resources containing sites associated with a DSR will be rejected by ERCOT.  If ERCOT determines that any participating site is associated with a DSR, that site will be treated as removed from the Resource on the date the determination was made.  An ERS Resource’s obligation will not change as a result of any such site removal.
[NPRR1000:  Delete item (13) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(14)	Each offer submitted by a QSE on behalf of an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline shall include the QSE’s projection of the maximum number of sites in the aggregation during the ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall review this projection and the information provided regarding the initial size of each aggregated ERS Load and shall reject any offer on behalf of such an ERS Load if the maximum size of the ERS Load projected by the QSE would violate the limits of site participation growth described in paragraph (15) below.
(15)	A QSE may modify the population of an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline once per month during an ERS Standard Contract Term via a process defined by ERCOT.  Such adjustments shall be effective on the first day of each month following the first month.  A fully validated ERS Offer form must be received by ERCOT no later than seven Business Days prior to the first day of the month for which is intended to be in effect.
(a)	During an ERS Standard Contract Term, a QSE may increase the number of sites in an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline by no more than the greater of the following:
(i)	100% of the initial number of sites; or
(ii)	Two MW times the QSE’s projection of the maximum number of sites in the aggregation during the ERS Standard Contract Term, divided by the maximum MW capacity offered for any ERS Time Period for the aggregation.
(b)	Any sites added to an ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline are subject to the same requirements for historical meter data as the other sites in the aggregation, as described in paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.3.1.1.
(16)	For each of the four ERS service types, an ERS Standard Contract Term may consist of a single ERS Contract Period or multiple non-overlapping ERS Contract Periods, as follows:  
(a)	If no ERS Resources’ obligations are exhausted for an ERS service type during an ERS Contract Period pursuant to Section 3.14.3.3, Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the last Operating Day of the ERS Standard Contract Term.  
(b)	If one or more ERS Resources’ obligations in a given ERS service type are exhausted pursuant to Section 3.14.3.3, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day during which the exhaustion occurred.  However, if ERS Resources participating in a service type remain deployed at the end of that Operating Day, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day on which those ERS Resources are recalled.
(c)	If an ERS Contract Period terminates as provided in paragraph (b) above, and one or more ERS Resources’ obligations were not exhausted, a new ERS Contract Period for the ERS service type shall begin at hour ending 0100 on the following Operating Day.  This new ERS Contract Period shall terminate as provided in this Section.  
(d)	If ERCOT elects pursuant to paragraph (b) above to renew the obligations of any ERS Resources whose obligations were entirely exhausted, a new ERS Contract Period for the ERS service type shall begin at hour ending 0100 on the Operating Day after ERCOT has notified QSEs that it has elected to renew the obligation.  If a new ERS Contract Period was initiated pursuant to paragraph (c) above on an Operating Day prior to ERCOT issuing a notice of renewal under this paragraph, that ERS Contract Period shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day on which ERCOT notified QSEs that the renewal will take place.  This new ERS Contract Period shall terminate as provided in this Section.
(17)	An ERS Resource currently obligated to provide an ERS service type during an ERS Time Period and ERS Contract Period may be offered to provide service as an MRA during that same ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Period.  If the ERS Resource is selected to provide service as an MRA during an ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Period in which it is currently obligated to provide an ERS service type, the ERS Contract Period will be terminated for that ERS service type.  The ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day that is five days before the first Operating Day the ERS Resource is obligated to provide service under the MRA Agreement.  However, if any ERS Resources participating in that ERS service type are currently deployed at the end of the Operating Day the ERS Contract Period is scheduled to terminate, then the ERS Resource’s ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall continue until the end of the Operating Day on which all of the ERS Resources participating in that ERS service type have been recalled, at which time the ERS Contract Period will terminate.
(18)	ERS Resources shall be obligated in ERS Contract Periods as follows:  
(a)	Unless an ERS Contract Period is terminated pursuant to paragraph (17) above, for the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, all ERS Resources awarded by ERCOT shall be obligated.
(b)	ERS Resources shall be obligated for 24 hours of cumulative deployment time for any ERS Contract Period during the December through March ERS Standard Contract Term.  The obligated cumulative deployment time for any ERS Contract Period during all other ERS Standard Contract Terms shall be 12 hours.
(c)	For each of any subsequent ERS Contract Periods for a given ERS service type in an ERS Standard Contract Term, any ERS Resource with remaining obligation due to cumulative deployment time of less than the maximum deployment hours specified for the ERS Standard Contract Term in paragraph (b) above at the end of the last ERS Contract Period shall be obligated for only this remaining deployment time in the new ERS Contract Period.  
(d)	For each of any subsequent ERS Contract Periods in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT may renew the obligations of certain ERS Resources as follows: 
(i)	During the offer submission process, QSEs shall designate on the ERS offer form, which is posted on the ERCOT website, whether an ERS Resource elects to participate in renewal ERS Contract Periods (“renewal opt-in”).  Except as provided in paragraph (iv) below, this election is irrevocable once the ERS Resource has been committed for an ERS Standard Contract Term.
(ii)	If the obligations of one or more ERS Resources are exhausted before the end of an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall determine whether to include renewal opt-ins in the subsequent ERS Contract Period.  ERCOT may limit any renewal to one or more ERS Time Periods and/or a specified MW quantity in which obligations have been exhausted.  
(iii)	If ERCOT decides to include renewal opt-ins in a subsequent ERS Contract Period, ERCOT shall promptly notify all ERS QSEs as to the ERS Time Periods and/or any specified MW quantity that it has elected to renew.
(iv)	By the end of the second Business Day in any renewal ERS Contract Period, a QSE may revoke the renewal opt-in status of any of its committed ERS Resources for any subsequent ERS Contract Periods within that ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall develop a method for QSEs to communicate such information.
(v)	By the end of the third Business Day in any ERS Contract Period other than the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall communicate to QSEs a confirmation of the terms of participation for all of their committed ERS Resources.
(19)	In any 12-month period beginning on December 1st and ending on November 30th, ERCOT shall not commit dollars toward ERS in excess of the ERS cost cap, except for the purpose of renewing ERS Resource obligations during a period where ERS has been exhausted.  ERCOT may determine cost limits for each ERS Standard Contract Term in order to ensure that the ERS cost cap is not exceeded.
(20)	If a QSE offers a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load, selects a control group baseline for that ERS Load, and ERCOT determines that the magnitude of the offer relative to the baseline error will prevent accurate determination of the performance, ERCOT shall reject the offer.
(21)	ERCOT shall reduce the available expenditure under the ERS cost cap by the value of the amount of ERS Self-Provision.  ERCOT shall value ERS Self-Provision at the clearing price multiplied by the total MW of ERS Self-Provision during each relevant ERS Time Period.
(22)	ERCOT shall procure ERS Resources for each ERS Time Period using a clearing price.  The Emergency Response Service Procurement Methodology, posted on the ERCOT website, is an Other Binding Document that describes the methodology used by ERCOT to procure ERS.  ERCOT may consider geographic location and its effect on congestion in making ERS awards.  ERCOT may prorate the capacity awarded to an ERS Resource in an ERS Time Period if the capacity offered for that ERS Resource would cost more than the Emergency Response Service Procurement Methodology allows under the time period expenditure limit.  Such proration shall only be done if the QSE indicates on its offer for an ERS Resource that the QSE is willing to have the capacity prorated and also has indicated the lowest prorated capacity limit which is acceptable for that ERS Resource.  If proration would result in an award below an ERS Resource’s designated prorated capacity limit or below the minimum MW offer applicable to the ERS service type as specified in paragraph (8) above, the offer will not be awarded.  
(23)	Payments and Self-Provision credits to QSEs representing ERS Resources are subject to adjustments as described in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.  Deployment of ERS Resources will not result in additional payments other than any payment for which the QSE may be eligible through Real-Time energy imbalance or other ERCOT Settlement process. 
(24)	QSEs representing ERS Resources selected to provide ERS shall execute a Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement, as provided in Section 22, Attachment G, Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement.
3.14.3.2	Emergency Response Service Self-Provision
(1)	QSEs may self-provide ERS.  A QSE electing to self-provide all or part of its ERS obligation shall provide ERCOT with the following, while adhering to a schedule published by ERCOT:
(a)	The maximum MW of capacity the QSE is willing to self-provide for each ERS Time Period for each of the four ERS service types; and
(b)	A proxy Load Ratio Share (LRS) specific to each ERS Time Period for which an offer is submitted.  Proxy LRS shall be a number between zero and one and determined by the self-providing QSE to represent its estimate of its final LRS to be used in ERS Settlement.
(2)	ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit is defined as the maximum level of self-provided ERS MW capacity for which a QSE may receive credit at Settlement for each ERS service type.  During the procurement process, a QSE may elect to use a proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit (based on the proxy LRS it submitted) to reduce its ERS Self-Provision MW for each ERS service type.  After receiving ERS Self-Provision information, ERCOT will award offers for additional MWs of ERS capacity for each ERS service type such that the sum of the following does not exceed the total amount of ERS capacity ERCOT intends to procure for that ERS service type in any one ERS Time Period:  
(a)	ERS capacity awarded through ERS competitive offers; and 
(b)	ERS capacity awarded through ERS Self-Provision offers, where for each self-providing QSE the self-provided capacity offer is the lesser of the amount offered or the QSE’s proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit.
 (3)	The calculations used to determine a QSE’s proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for each ERS service type for the ERS procurement phase are the same as those used to determine the actual ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for Settlement, as described in Section 6.6.11.1, Emergency Response Service Capacity Payments, except that:
(a)	Offered ERS capacity is substituted for delivered ERS capacity; and
(b)	A QSE’s proxy LRS is substituted for its actual LRS.
(4)	ERCOT shall compute and provide QSEs offering ERS Self-Provision their proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for each ERS service type.  A QSE may then reduce any or all of its self-provision offers such that its revised total ERS Self-Provision capacity is greater than or equal to its proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit provided by ERCOT.  
(5)	A QSE with reduced ERS Self-Provision capacity shall notify ERCOT of the ERS Resources whose obligations are reduced and the quantity of the revised obligations.  The QSE must provide this information to ERCOT within two Business Days of receiving Notice of the reduced obligation.
(6)	If a QSE reduces its ERS commitment according to these procedures, it will not be obligated to pay ERS charges so long as the ERS Self-Provision capacity it delivers is equal to or greater than its final LRS of the total ERS capacity delivered through offers and ERS Self-Provision, as described in paragraph (2) of Section 6.6.11.2, Emergency Response Service Capacity Charge. 
(7)	A QSE opting for ERS Self-Provision may also offer separate capacity into ERS in the form of a priced offer in the same manner as any other QSE.
(8)	The capacity obligation of a self-provided ERS Resource that is designated for renewal opt-in, as described in paragraph (18) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, will be fixed at the original awarded MW level for any subsequent ERS Contract Periods in the ERS Standard Contract Term.
3.14.3.3	Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements
(1)	If ERCOT deploys ERS, any ERS Resource that is contractually committed to provide the ERS service type deployed during the ERS Time Period that includes all or any part of the first interval of the Sustained Response Period must deploy.  If an ERS Resource does not have an obligation for any part of the first interval of the Sustained Response Period, the ERS Resource is not required to deploy at any time during the Sustained Response Period.
(2)	For purposes of this paragraph, deployment obligation time is the cumulative time during the Sustained Response Period of an event during which an ERS Resource has an obligation.  Deployment obligation time does not include the ramp time.  An ERS Resource shall be subject to the maximum cumulative deployment obligation time for an ERS Contract Period as specified in paragraph (18)(b) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, except that for ERS Resources that did not exhaust their obligations in a previous ERS Contract Period within the same ERS Standard Contract Term, the maximum deployment obligation time shall be the remaining deployment obligation time from the previous ERS Contract Period as provided by paragraph (18)(c) of Section 3.14.3.1.  Weather-Sensitive ERS test deployments do not contribute to the calculation of cumulative deployment obligation time.
(3)	Unless ERCOT has received a notice of unavailability in a format prescribed by ERCOT, ERCOT shall assume that a contracted ERS Resource is fully available to provide ERS.
(4)	QSEs and ERS Resources they represent shall meet the following technical requirements: 
(a)	Each ERS Resource, including each member of an aggregated ERS Resource, must have an ESI ID or Resource ID (RID) and dedicated metering, as defined by ERCOT.  An ERS Resource located outside of a competitive service area may use a unique service identifier in lieu of an ESI ID or RID.  ERCOT shall analyze 15-minute interval meter data, adjusted for the deemed actual Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs), for each ERS Resource for purposes of offer analysis, availability and performance measurement.  ERS Resources behind a NOIE meter point shall arrange, preferably with the NOIE TDSP, to provide ERCOT with 15-minute interval meter data subject to ERCOT’s specifications and approval.  ERS Resources behind a Private Use Network’s Settlement Meter point shall provide ERCOT 15-minute interval meter data subject to ERCOT’s specifications and approval.  All generators in an ERS Resource must have TDSP metering capable of measuring energy exported to the ERCOT System and TDSP metering capable of measuring energy imported from the ERCOT System.  The QSE must also ensure that interval metering is installed that measures the output of each site in the ERS Generator and that conforms with the requirements described in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.142, Submetering for Apartments, Condominiums, and Mobile Home Parks.  Time stamps shall conform to the requirements in Section 10.9.2, TSP or DSP Metered Entities.  The ERS Resource associated with unique meters in competitive choice areas will be adjusted by the same DLFs as the ESI ID associated with that ERS Resource.  The ERS Resource associated with unique meters in NOIE areas will be adjusted based on a NOIE DSP DLF study submitted to ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (6) of Section 13.3, Distribution Losses.   
(b)	An ERS Resource participating in ERS-10 must be capable of meeting its event performance obligations relevant to its assigned performance evaluation methodology within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction to its QSE, and must be able to maintain such performance for the entire Sustained Response Period.  An ERS Resource participating in ERS-30 must be capable of meeting its event performance obligations relevant to its assigned performance evaluation methodology within 30 minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction to its QSE, and must be able to maintain such performance for the entire Sustained Response Period.
(c)	A QSE must be capable of communicating with its ERS Resources in sufficient time to ensure deployment as described in paragraph (b) above.
(d)	QSEs shall communicate to ERCOT, in a method prescribed by ERCOT, material changes in the availability status of their ERS Resources.
(e)	An ERS Resource deployed for ERS must be able to return to a condition such that it is capable of meeting its ERS performance requirements within ten hours following a release Dispatch Instruction.
(f)	ERS Resources and their QSEs are subject to qualification based on ERCOT’s evaluation of their historical meter data and, if applicable, their historic performance in providing other comparable ERCOT services.  ERS Resources and their QSEs are subject to testing requirements as described in Section 8.1.3.2, Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources.  
(g)	ERS Resources are not subject to the modeling, telemetry and COP requirements of other Resources.
(5)	The contracted capacity of ERS Resources may not be used to provide Ancillary Services during a contracted ERS Time Period.  Nothing herein shall be construed to limit passive (voluntary) Load response, provided the ERS Resource meets its performance and availability requirements, as described in Section 8.1.3.1, Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources.
(6)	QSEs representing ERS Resources must meet the requirements specified in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.
3.14.3.4	Emergency Response Service Reporting and Market Communications
(1)	ERCOT shall review the effectiveness and benefits of ERS every 12 months from the start of the program year and report its findings to TAC no later than April 15 of each calendar year.
(2)	Prior to the start of the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, and no later than the end of the third Business Day following the start of any subsequent ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the number of MW procured per ERS Time Period, the number and type of ERS Resources selected, and the projected total cost of ERS for that ERS Contract Period.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the following documents to the MIS Certified Area for each of the four ERS service types:
(a)	ERS Award Notification;
(b)	ERS Resources Submission Form – Approved; 
(c)	ERS Resource Event Performance Summary;
(d)	ERS Resource Availability Summary;
(e)	ERS Test Portfolio;
(f)	ERS Resource Test Results;
(g)	ERS Pre-populated Resource Identification Forms;
(h)	ERS Resource Group Assignments;
(i)	ERS Resource Submission Form – Error Reports;
(j)	ERS Preliminary Baseline Review Results;
(k)	ERS QSE Portfolio Availability Summary;
(l)	ERS QSE Portfolio Event Performance Summary;
(m)	ERS Meter Data Error Report;
(n)	ERS QSE-level Payment Details Report; and
(o)	ERS Obligation Report for TDSPs.
(4)	At least 24 hours before an ERS Standard Contract Term begins, or within 72 hours after the beginning of a new ERS Contract Period within an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall post the information below to the MIS Certified Area for each affected TDSP:
(a)	A list of ERS Resources and members of aggregated ERS Resources located in the TDSP’s service area that will be participating in ERS during the upcoming ERS Standard Contract Term; 
(b)	The name of the QSE representing each ERS Resource;
(c)	The ERS service type provided by each ERS Resource for each ERS Time Period;
(d)	All applicable ESI IDs or unique meter identifier associated with each ERS Resource; 
(e)	Estimate of the ERS MW obligation by station code for TDSPs in competitive areas;
(f)	Estimate of the ERS MW obligation by zip code for TDSPs in NOIE areas; and 
(g)	The date(s) of the interconnection agreement(s) for each generator in any ERS Generator.
(5)	TDSPs shall maintain the confidentiality of the information provided pursuant to paragraph (4) above.
(6)	ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the following information for each ERS offer 60 days after the first day of the ERS Standard Contract Term:
(a)	The name of the QSE submitting the offer; 
(b)	For each ERS Time Period, the price and quantity offered, or if the offer is for self-provided ERS, the quantity offered and an indication that the MW will be self-provided; and
(c)	The ERS service type.
[NPRR885, NPRR995, and NPRR1007:  Insert applicable portions of Sections 3.14.4 and 3.14.4.1 below upon system implementation for NPRR885 or NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007:]