3.12	Load Forecasting
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and use Load forecasts to serve operations and planning objectives.  
(a)	ERCOT shall update and post hourly on the ERCOT website, a “Seven-Day Load Forecast” as described in Section 3.12.1, Seven-Day Load Forecast, that provides forecasted hourly Load over the next 168 hours for each of the Weather Zones and for each of the Forecast Zones.  
(b)	ERCOT shall develop and post monthly on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area a “36-Month Load Forecast” that provides a daily minimum and maximum Load forecast for the next 36-months for the ERCOT Region, for each of the Weather Zones, and for each of the Forecast Zones.  The 36-Month Load Forecast is used in the Outage coordination process and for Resource adequacy reporting.
[NPRR1004:  Insert paragraph (c) below upon system implementation:]
(c)	ERCOT shall generate and post daily on the ERCOT website Load distribution factors that provide hourly distribution for non-Private Use Network Loads by means of the Mid-Term Load Forecast (MTLF).  Private Use Network Loads will be generated separately.  If ERCOT decides, in its sole discretion, to change the Load distribution factors for reasons such as anticipated weather events or holidays, ERCOT shall select representative conditions as an input reasonably reflecting the anticipated Load in the Operating Day.  ERCOT may also modify the Load distribution factors to account for predicted differences in network topology between the Load forecast and Operating Day.  ERCOT may set auto error correction settings and apply Load forecast validation to better represent Load Profiles.  Private Use Network Load distribution factor data is redacted from the MIS postings and all self-serve Load’s distribution factors are set to zero when the data is used by the downstream applications.
(2)	ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website an Intra-Hour Load Forecast (IHLF) that provides a rolling two hour five minute forecast of ERCOT-wide Load.