9.19	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients
(1)	If at least one Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its Settlement Invoice in full (short-pay), ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below:
(a)	ERCOT shall make every reasonable attempt to collect payment from each short-paying Invoice Recipient prior to four hours preceding the close of the Bank Business Day Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the day that payments by ERCOT are due to be paid to applicable Invoice Recipient(s). 
(b)	ERCOT shall draw on any available Financial Security pledged to ERCOT by each short-paying Invoice Recipient that did not pay the amount due under paragraph (a) above.  If the amount of any such draw is greater than the amount of the short-paying Invoice Recipient’s cash collateral held in excess of that required to cover its Total Potential Exposure (TPE) (“Excess Collateral”), then a draw on available security for a short-paying Invoice Recipient shall be considered a Late Payment for purposes of Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.  ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, hold up to 5% of Financial Security of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and use those funds to pay subsequent Settlement Invoices as they become due.  Any funds still held will be applied to unpaid Invoices in conjunction with the default uplift process outlined in Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices.
(c)	ERCOT shall offset or recoup any amounts owed, or to be owed, by ERCOT to a short-paying Invoice Recipient against amounts not paid by that Invoice Recipient, and ERCOT shall apply the amount offset or recouped to cover short pays by that Invoice Recipient.  ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, hold credit Invoices and use those funds to pay subsequent Settlement Invoices as they become due.  Any funds still held will be offset or recouped against unpaid Invoices in conjunction with the default uplift process outlined in Section 9.19.1.
(d)	If, after taking the actions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, ERCOT still does not have sufficient funds to pay all amounts that it owes to Settlement Invoice Recipients in full, ERCOT shall deduct any applicable administrative fees as specified in Section 9.16, ERCOT System Administration and User Fees, payments for Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Services, and the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Balancing Account (CRRBA) from the amount received or collected and then reduce payments to all Settlement Invoice Recipients owed monies from ERCOT.  The reductions must be based on a pro rata basis of monies owed to each Settlement Invoice Recipient, to the extent necessary to clear ERCOT’s accounts on the payment due date to achieve revenue neutrality for ERCOT.  ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short pays and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the Settlement Invoice.
(e)	If sufficient funds continue to be unavailable for ERCOT to pay all amounts in full to short-paid Entities for that Settlement Invoice and the short-paying Entity is not complying with a payment plan designed to enable ERCOT to pay all amounts in full to short-paid Entities, ERCOT shall uplift short-paid amounts through the Default Uplift process described below in Section 9.19.1 and Section 9.19.2, Payment Process for Default Uplift Invoices.
(f)	When ERCOT enters into a payment plan with a short-pay Invoice Recipient, ERCOT shall post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area:
(i)	The short-pay plan;
(ii)	The schedule of quantifiable expected payments, updated if and when modifications are made to the payment schedule; and
(iii)	Invoice dates to which the payments will be applied.
(g)	To the extent ERCOT is able to collect past due funds owed by a short-paying Invoice Recipient before the default uplift process defined in Section 9.19.1, ERCOT shall allocate the collected funds to the earliest short-paid Invoice for that short-paying Invoice Recipient.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to distribute collected funds quarterly by the 15th Business Day following the end of a calendar quarter for a short paying Entity when the cumulative amount of undistributed funds held exceed $50,000 on a pro rata basis of monies owed.  Subsequently collected funds that have not previously been distributed will be applied against unpaid Invoices in conjunction with the uplift process outlined in Section 9.19.1. 
(h)	To the extent ERCOT is able to collect past due funds owed by a short-paying Invoice Recipient, after the default uplift process defined in Section 9.19.1, ERCOT shall allocate the collected funds using the same allocation method as in the default uplift process.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to distribute subsequently collected funds quarterly by the 15th Business Day following the end of a calendar quarter for a short paying Entity when the cumulative amount of undistributed funds held exceed $50,000.